# THE TRAIL OF THE WHITE KNIGHT

By Bruce Graeme

# PROLOGUE

I

"Say again you love me," she pleaded.

"Silly one! Have I not already told you more
times than I can count?" he chided.

She pouted slightly. "Yes, dear one; but a woman
can never hear too often the words which mean so
much to her."

"A woman!" The man laughed softly. "You are
not a woman, Zita. Why, you have yet to see your
nineteenth birthday. You are still nothing but a
child—yet—I love you, Zita."

"Are you then a grandfather, big Mr Englishman?"
she mocked.

"No, but it is more than a month ago now since I
celebrated my twenty-fifth birthday."

The next few minutes were spent in silence as they
walked along the shady paths of Margaret Island.
Romance infused the soft, warm air of the July night
with its subtle infection; the surroundings in which
these two walked were reminiscent of Paradise.

On their right the darkness of the night was
emphasized by the many beautiful trees, the shadows
of which, cast by the silvery light of the moon above,
were delicately traced upon the soft sward beneath,
and the simple majesty of the woods was disturbed
only by the bright lights of an electric tramcar, as it
flashed past, raucously, clangingly making its way
from one end of the island to the other.

On their left the scene was still more beautiful, for
past them swiftly flowed the broad Danube, silently
racing toward its outlet in the Black Sea, carrying on
its bosom the broad-bottomed boats of commerce.

Just now these barges seemed like quaint, black
shadows, moving with an eerie silence. There were,
however, other craft, steamboats, which shimmered
and twinkled, their reflected lights dancing merrily up
and down upon the water. These were the vessels
which conveyed the people across from either end of
Margaret Island.

On the bank opposite was the old town of Ofen,
better known as Buda. From where the couple stood,
quiet in the thoughts which gripped them, they could
see the lights of the royal palace scintillating in the
darkness.

From the upper end of the island they could hear
faintly the plashing of superfluous water as, from the
bath-house, it falls in a pretty cascade into the pond
beneath.

Geoffrey Templeton wondered if there could possibly
be any other place in the world so wonderful as
this, while Zita looked up at his strong profile, thrown
into relief by the ethereal light above, and smiled
slightly to herself, for she too was idealizing,
contemplating whether there could be another man in this
world so splendid as he.

She looked at the moon, and even as she gazed
upward a small black cloud passed beneath, quite
obscuring its silvery sheen. Coincidently she
remembered that on the morrow Geoffrey was to return to
England, his holiday at an end.

"Oh, Geoffrey, dear heart," she murmured softly,
"must you indeed depart to-morrow for your cold,
cheerless England?"

He turned toward her, and, acting on the impulse
of the moment, seized her dainty hands within his and
pressed them passionately.

"I wish I could say otherwise," he muttered
hoarsely, "for I would ask nothing better than to
stop here with you always; but I have no option. We
must part, darling, for six months. It shall not be
longer, I swear it. After all," he continued, "six
months is but a short time, and then, when I return,
we can be married. Cheer up, little one, only twenty-four
weeks, and then.... Smile, Zita, for this night
is our last one together, and it hurts me to see you
sad."

Gently releasing her fingers, and catching her chin
with his right hand, he lifted her face gently so that
they gazed into one another's eyes. Pluckily she
attempted to smile, but instead a tiny tear, escaping,
rolled down her cheek, and seeing this Geoffrey drew
nearer to her, kissing it away before it found time to
drop.

Quickly the hours sped by while they talked of the
past.... Once again he made her laugh as he
reminded her of the time when he could talk no
Hungarian, when she, taking pity on his plight, instructed
him, until now he was proficient in the Magyar
language.

They spoke of the future, the far-off time when he
should return to Budapest and claim her for his own,
and together they planned the time-to-be, discussed
how long they would spend in England with his people,
and how long in Budapest with hers.

From not far away there was a discreet cough from
Zita's chaperon, and Geoffrey looked, dismayed, at his
watch.

"Come, darling, this must be good night ... and
au revoir."

Quickly the ferry conveyed them from the island
back to Buda again, where he hired a fiacre.

Back at her home, the wise and kindly chaperon
discreetly disappeared; once again Geoffrey clasped
his future wife in his arms, and, kissing the brimming
tears away, made his adieux.

"In six months I shall return," were his last words,
and the next moment he was gone.

Early the next morning Geoffrey left for Paris;
before him England, behind him Budapest, the city
of smiles, gaiety, and happiness.

"In six months I shall return."

The words echoed in his ears, and the hum of the
wheels of the wagon-lit repeated after him: "Six
months, six months!"

Once he looked out of the window, but he saw
only an ominous haze away in the east, heavy banks
of thunder-laden clouds, obscuring his last view of
Budapest.

Even as the looming storm rolled up from the east
that morning so did other clouds spring up, this time
political, born of a tiny puff of blue smoke which was
slowly emitted from the barrel of a revolver, held in
the hands of a fanatic; and less than a month later
followed the whirlwind, and the upheaval of Europe.
Geoffrey's dream was past, buried in the heart of the
bloody battlefield.

II

The War was over! Peace had come again to
Germany, France, England, Italy, and the United
States. Over these countries there was once more
contentment, the happiness of a quickly reviving industry.
The echoing boom of guns was no longer heard, air-raids
were already but a memory, telegraph boys ceased
to be of heartrending significance.

Already war-scarred warriors were being demobilized;
ex-soldiers were returning to more peaceful employment;
food, diverted from its destination—headquarters—was
becoming plentiful, of a better quality.

War was over! Now only time was needed, and
these countries would be their old selves again. In
Paris the statesmen were collecting to discuss peace
terms and reparations.

This was the position in March 1919 of the victors,
and even of some of the vanquished. Germany, beaten
and cowed, was now putting its house in order. Turkey,
philosophically shrugging its shoulders, was merely
resuming life where it had been left off.

So busy were the victors celebrating victory, so
engaged were the vanquished making the best of their
defeat, that the world overlooked one country where
peace had failed to find a harbour, where post-War
conditions were worse than during that awful period
of war itself, the country in which human jackals and
vultures were already gathered to disrupt and dissect
an already breaking empire—Hungary.

Upon Hungary Lenin, from the fastnesses of
Moscow, had already cast his eyes, and so he sent out
his lieutenants, schooled in fiendish cruelty, inculcated
with inhuman conceptions of government.

To Hungary came Bela Kun, the chief apostle of
Lenin and Trotsky, where, in an incredibly short time,
he enrolled under his banner of Communism criminals
of all types, and elected leaders: Bohm, Pogany,
Agoston, Harcoq, and Szamuelly.

"Down with the bourgeoisie, long live the
proletariat!" became the cry, and to the echo of these
hysterical screams poor Hungary commenced the
worst year throughout the pages of its history,
during which it was to live under a reign of terror worse
even than the French Revolution.

To Budapest, a seething hotbed of Communism,
came Geoffrey Templeton in search of the girl of
whom he had dreamed during the long years of war,
the woman he had never forgotten.

Arriving at the East station, he was amazed by the
dark, dismal gloominess of the once glorious terminus.
Where before had wandered well-dressed travellers,
rubbing shoulders with gaily uniformed officers of
the Hungarian army, now slouched slovenly men and
starving women, while deeper in the gloom lurked
ominous shadows.

On all sides suspicious glances were levelled at him
from wolf-like faces. Here and there he espied men
in leather uniforms, their caps blazoning Red cockades,
their belts an armoury in themselves. They were
the dreaded Lenin Boys, a troop of murderers and
criminals, under the command of Josef Cserni, ex-sailor
and late prisoner of war in Russia.

These Lenin Boys were guaranteed immunity from
all punishment for murder or any other crime so
long as their activities were confined to the hated
bourgeoisie and did not involve the death of notable
Bolsheviks.

Their very appearance was terrifying, for they were
chosen for their height and fiery appearance. As
Geoffrey walked toward the entrance one of these
Boys pushed against him.

"Bourgeois," he hiccuped, and spat on the ground.

With blazing eyes Geoffrey turned round, and the
soldier slunk away. There was a hoarse laugh from
one of the onlookers, but otherwise no one took any
notice of this incident.

It was in vain that Geoffrey searched for a vehicle
to convey him to an hotel. No public conveyances of
any kind were to be seen, only here and there a charging
motor-car, occupied, so far as he could see, by groups
of soldiers, or Communists, distinguishable by their
criminal countenances, their scarlet decorations.

He realized that to get anywhere he would have to
walk, and so, picking up his bag, he began to traverse
the darkened streets. Here and there street-lights
reflected upon advertisement hoardings, blazing with
Red posters, huge placards printed in red and black,
portraying immense and ghastly figures.

Geoffrey heard a sound of pattering footsteps behind
him. Out of the dim shadows came the running figure
of a man, breathing hoarsely. He passed in a flash,
and then the Englishman heard other following steps,
and hoarse shouting.

"Long live the Dictatorship of the Proletariat!"
some one cried, then suddenly there roared the sound
of a shot, and a street-light just ahead flicked out as
its encasing glass tinkled to the ground.

"Death to the bourgeois! Death!"

Geoffrey halted suddenly, startled. What had
happened? Was this Hungary, the Budapest he knew so
well? From a distance he heard more shouts, further
shots, and then silence once again.

"Good Gad!" he muttered to himself. "I thought
this was peace."

He had never dreamed, never imagined, when he had
set out for Budapest to go to his beloved, that he was
to meet with this sort of thing. An icy chill seemed
to settle round his heart. What of Zita?

For the first time since his demobilization his spirits
fell to zero. For two weeks now he had been living in
a Paradise of his own, eagerly anticipating the moment
when he should clasp the girl he loved—woman, she
would be now—once more in his arms.

He had had no reason to believe that this—this
ghastly business was taking place in Budapest. "Death
to the bourgeoisie!" What did it mean? Revolution!
No, not even that, but worse.

With a white, set face he picked up his bag once
more and commenced to walk. Now and again the
silence was disturbed by hurrying motor-cars, shouts,
or sometimes shots. The streets were practically
empty, and at this Geoffrey did not wonder any
longer.

Later, he arrived at the Continental Hotel, a memory
of its palatial splendour still existing in his mind, but
now it resembled nothing more than a filthy building,
its exterior no cleaner than its interior, which was
littered with dirt, and smelled evilly.

There were still guests—unkempt, unwashed men
and women who lounged about, spitting and smoking.
He stared with amazement at the scene before him,
disbelieving the evidence of his own eyes.

He was accosted presently by a clerk, who slouched
up to him.

"What do you want?" the man growled.

Geoffrey eyed him silently. "A room," he said
presently, and the clerk, under the Englishman's fixed
glance, stirred uneasily.

"Supposing we have not got one?" he said.

"Supposing you look," replied Geoffrey quietly.

The clerk gave ground. Entering his counter he
banged a bell, and a pinczer approached.

"Take this man up to room 61," he ordered.

Without a word the waiter picked up Geoffrey's bag
and led the way, working the lift himself.

Room 61 was no cleaner than the vestibule. As
the electric light threw its white glare over the room
Geoffrey saw dozens of blackbeetles swarming into
hidden crannies.

The waiter hesitated. Geoffrey put his hand in his
pocket and pulled out some coins. "Come inside and
shut the door," he ordered, then presently, when the
other had complied, and received a tip which made his
eyes glisten, asked: "Now, what does all this mean?
The War——"

"The War!" The man laughed bitterly. "Not
the War, sir, but revolution, Communism, Bolshevism." His
face became suspicious, and his lips closed tightly.
"Why do you ask me? You know as well as I do."

Geoffrey shook his head. "I do not. I have only
just arrived from England."

The waiter looked up eagerly. "You are English, sir?"

Geoffrey nodded.

"I was frightened. There are spies, detectives, and
agents provocateurs everywhere."

"Spies, detectives—I don't understand!"

"No, sir, you wouldn't. You have won the War,
and we have lost. It makes all the difference. Hungary
is now a republic—worse, in fact, for we have a Soviet
Government."

"Good God!" Geoffrey was astounded, but recollections
of Zita made him urge the older man on with his
story. "Tell me more," he suggested.

"It all began with Count Michael Karolyi. He
formed a republic, with himself at the helm. Not for
long, sir. The Communists took the lead under Bela
Kun, two days ago, and now we have the Commune,
another word for murder and pillage.

"I have heard it said that Szamuelly wants a three
days' loot, three days during which the comrades, the
Communists, can steal and sack to their hearts' content.
It may happen at any minute. Sir, I cannot tell you how
bad it is!" Two tears forced themselves out of the
man's eyes and slowly rolled down his puckered cheeks.

"You see," he continued presently, "myself, I am
too old for these ideas. You grand folks, you treat the
likes of us well. I used to make good money before
the War came and spoilt it all."

"But what of the rich people, I mean the people
who used to stay here? What of them?"

The waiter shook his head slowly. "All penniless,
sir, penniless. Their money confiscated, their property
stolen." He dropped his voice. "Many of them are
... dead, murdered."

Geoffrey seemed only to hear his voice from a
distance as the man continued. There was a buzzing in
his ears, and his head was reeling. What of Zita?
What of her? Supposing that she were ... dead!

"Oh, God!" he moaned, and with an imperious
motion he stopped the waiter, and strode up and down.
Presently he turned again to the other. "Tell me," he
asked anxiously, "has anything happened to the people
in the Erzebet-Korut?"

It was in the Erzebet-Korut that Zita lived with her
father and mother, the Count and Countess Rakoczy.

The man scratched his head. "I have heard tell
of—and yet—no, sir, I am not sure."

Geoffrey could have shaken him by the shoulders.
"Go, now!" he cried, and the old man passed out.

It was too late that night to do anything. Geoffrey
undressed and threw himself into bed, yet scarcely
slept. He tossed and turned from side to side, but all
the time he could picture only Zita, who appeared to
be vaguely holding out her arms to him, just as she had
done when he had left her, over four years ago.

Sick with apprehension, he heard the hours gradually
strike one after another, and never was dawn more
welcome. He hastily dressed.

Not waiting for breakfast, he hurried to the Erzebet-Korut,
and was relieved to find that, if outside appearances
could be taken as any criterion, nothing had
happened to the Rakoczy residence, since, except for
its dirty condition, it seemed untouched.

With a trembling heart he approached the entrance,
and was presently admitted.

Ten minutes later a white-faced man reeled out,
stunned by the news he heard, the story he had been
told by the dying Countess, the tale of how the
Count, for his patriotic resistance to Communism, had
been proscribed an outlaw by Bela Kun, and had fled,
accompanied by Zita, for his life.

Zita and her kindly white-haired father outlaws in
their own country, liable to be shot at any moment!
Geoffrey groaned. It seemed unbelievable! Only by
an effort of will did he become his normal self again
as he walked back to the hotel.

Fortunately the Countess had been able to give him
the address to which her tiny family had fled, a small
peasant cottage in Szugy on the Ipoly.

Thither went Geoffrey, his vague haunting fear growing
stronger as the train advanced sluggishly through
the quiet countryside. The hours passed slowly, but at
length the train steamed into Balassagyarmat. Later
Geoffrey arrived at Szugy.

Everything seemed quiet and peaceful—ominously
so. There was a sense of brooding hurt, a solemn hush.
Yard by yard Geoffrey advanced nearer to his destination,
and all the time his heart beat a wild tattoo, though
now it was because of his nearness to Zita. At last he
was really to see her, to feel her within his arms.

At last! A small cottage was before him. In front
of it bloomed early spring flowers, and the grass
sprouted greenly. A narrow flagged path led up to
the door, and along this Geoffrey stepped. Another
few moments, a second only...

The door was slightly open, and there was no answer
to his knocks. There was a slight smell, a tang which
he could not define.

He pushed the door open and stepped inside.

The tang was that of blood, freshly spilled blood,
that of the old Count, whose gentle heart had brought
him unwavering popularity wherever he went.

He had been playing chess at the time. Even now
the chessboard and the pieces still remained on the
table: red versus white, red winning, the white king
in check to them.

On the floor lay the Count—dead. Opposite sat
Zita, still and motionless, her staring, horrified eyes
fixed with a peculiar intensity in front of her.

Calmly Geoffrey inspected the scene in front of him,
quietly viewing the tragedy. Only his eyes flickered
strangely. He moved more into the room, and bent
over the corpse. As he had thought. Bayonet wounds,
here, there, and everywhere. The helpless old man
had been literally stabbed to death by brutal, bestial
murderers, pawns of Bela Kun, the Dictator of the
Proletariat.

Zita was untouched. She had died as she watched
her father's death, her heart giving way under the
strain, her hand clutching a chess-piece, a piece which,
had she finished her move, would have released the
white king from check by taking a red pawn.

The piece was—a white knight.

# CHAPTER I

The surging crowds, swaying, shuffling,
grumbling, waited impatiently in the grim
Parliament Square, as yet lit but faintly by
the dawning from the east.

A motley crew, a corrupt community; the scene
was but a typical picture of Budapest and all Hungary
in the grip of revolution, a revolt of the proletariat for
government by the proletariat, the shadow of Lenin
falling upon an unhappy country, already torn by years of
recent strife and earlier suppression.

A country, monarchist to the core, now ground down
by Soldiers' Councils and Workers' Councils, headed
by the Russian-taught Bela Kun, and the bloodthirsty
tyrant Tibor Szamuelly, his Terror Boys, and the
merciless Korvin-Klein. Unhappy Hungary!

Down through the ages have trickled histories of the
French Revolution, the people versus the 'aristos.' Too
well is known the toll of Madame Guillotine, and the
cruel justice of Robespierre. There have been written
histories of the Revolution, of the howling mobs, the
vampire women; readers have felt a saddened pain at
the thought of fleeing émigrés, driven from their own
country, the land of their birth.

Yet how many are aware that in less than a year
more horrible deeds, more bloodthirsty deaths occurred
during the dictatorship of Bela Kun than during all the
years of the French Revolution?

Even in the crowd which waited this morning there
were whispers of horrible tortures: of men, whose only
crime was that of belonging to the hated bourgeoisie,
who were strung up by the hands and gagged with the
lighted ends of cigars and cigarettes; of others who
were bayoneted by the Terror Boys, and flung into a
newly dug grave and buried, even while the breath
still remained in their bodies.

Other tales there were also, all too true unfortunately,
of prisoners of Szamuelly, of the proletariat, who were,
incredible as it may sound, flayed alive by their own
countrymen.

Murder, theft, blackmail! These were not crimes—merely
the prerogative of the proletariat. To be a
bourgeois! There was no worse sin in the calendar of
Dante; and so the towns and villages of Hungary ran
red with the blood of the Hungarians, and all because
the shadow of Lenin fell upon the unhappy land.

"Well done, Bela Kun! Well done, Szamuelly!"
applauded Lenin, and, thus encouraged, these two flung
the war-battered country into the maelstrom of bloody
revolution, unheeded by the outside world, for all Europe
was itself only just free of the throes of a ghastly war.

Not a soul to aid the unhappy victims, not a man to
stretch out a helping hand—save one.

* * * * * *

"They keep us waiting. See the rope swinging. It
is waiting too; it has good work to do these days. A
good piece of hemp, comrade. It must love the blasted
bourgeoisie, it embraces them so closely. Maybe, though,
it's bullets to-day. A little piece of lead makes a nice
hole, eh! a nice hole!"

The speaker grinned evilly, and his companion
chuckled likewise. They were two of the many who
waited, two Red-cockaded workmen who were there to
see men hanged to satisfy the sated appetite of Korvin-Klein.

"They are a long time. Perhaps they are holding a
trial."

The one who answered was a contrast to his companion,
for the first speaker was as tall as Comrade
George Garami was short, and as scarred as the other
was unpleasant. They might have been a source of
humour, these two, to the hundreds who surrounded
them, but people did not laugh much these days.

"Pah!" The tall man spat. "Korvin-Klein knows
how to treat the pigs. Trials! What do they want
trials for? That is what I ask you, comrade. What do
they want with trials? Hang them, I say, and quickly."

"Me too," agreed Garami, "but Bela Kun says the
Allies may interfere."

The other man scowled. "Not they. The more we
kill the better they will be pleased. It saves them the
trouble."

Garami grinned. "You speak well, comrade. Only
if it were the Allies it might be you who would hang
instead of the bourgeois dogs. There were those fifty
Italian prisoners you said you bayoneted——"

"Stop your mouth," muttered the scarred one.
"You talk too much, you, George Garami. Your
tongue wags freely, friend, and maybe it will lead you
into trouble."

Garami grunted. "What have I to fear, eh! friend
Wenzel? I am a good Communist, me."

"So well you may be; but even good Communists
have talked too much lately. It is said that they gossip
too freely and that the White Knight has long ears."

"The White Knight! What and who may he be,
comrade?"

Wenzel turned his hideously scarred face toward the
smaller man. "What, dolt, do you mean to say you
have never heard of the White Knight?"

"Should I question you otherwise?" asked Garami
testily.

Wenzel burst into a harsh roar of raucous laughter,
and the unusual sound attracted the attention of others
around him, and they turned his way. Wenzel, observing
this, waved his arms wide, claiming their attention.

"Sisters, comrades," he announced, "my little friend
here has never heard of the White Knight!"

There was no echoing smile of derision from his
listeners; instead Wenzel saw nothing but blank faces.

He raised his eyebrows. "What!" he exclaimed,
"have none of you yet heard of the White Knight?"

Several shook their heads, and a woman called out:
"Tell us, comrade, of him. Does he belong to the
counter-revolution?"

Wenzel grinned, and the effect was so repulsive that
the woman shrank back in disgust.

"Tell you! Gladly, comrades. 'Tis not often my
lot to be the town-crier. I feel as important as a local
commissary.

"Know you, then, that this White Knight is a
mysterious being of whom, so far, no one has yet any
knowledge. Maybe he is a man, possibly a woman, or
perhaps a bastard brat sent up from Hell to assist the
Devil's spawn, the bourgeoisie.

"He was first heard of about a month ago, when
the People's Commissary at Balassagyarmat arrested the
outlaw Stephen Arpad. It was known to Bela Kun that
this Stephen Arpad was indulging in treasonable
correspondence with traitors here in Budapest with a view
to establishing a White counter-revolution.

"Well, friends, Bela Kun awaited his time, but at
last this dog Arpad was arrested and thrown into the
Balassagyarmat jail, and there he was kept awaiting the
time when Tibor Szamuelly should arrive to hang him.

"On the night before Szamuelly arrived, what do
you think happened, friends? Arpad escaped."

There was a deep-throated growl from the crowd,
and Wenzel, realizing that he was working them up,
and appreciating the fact that he was at the moment the
centre of interest, became more bombastically theatrical.

"Yes, comrades," he continued, his ugly face glowing
malignantly, "Arpad escaped, and there was no one
to offer any explanation. All that was found in his cell
was a small chess-piece, a white knight.

"What did Szamuelly do? Why, he did what all
good Communists should do. He hanged the commissary
as a warning to others not to let good hanging
meat escape in the same way."

Wenzel roared with laughter; but there was no
one to join in with him. Steeped in bloody thoughts
and deeds, familiar with ghastly sights, insane with
revolutionary lust as they were, yet Wenzel appalled
them.

At least a head higher than the tallest of his listeners,
he was conspicuous, not only by his height, but likewise
by his face, his head, and his general appearance.

In the first place, his greasy cap, gaudily illuminated
by a brilliant Red cockade, the badge of the Communist
and the proletariat, did not entirely conceal his closely
cropped head of hair, naturally parted on the right-hand
side by a vivid and extraordinarily straight scar—one of
the many which disfigured his strange features.

Six scars there were, including the one described
above. There was one which shaved his left eyebrow,
one which scored his left cheek, one which stretched
from his mouth, pulling it perpetually out of shape
across to the lobe of his right ear, one small one just
above, and finally one across his throat, creating the
ghastly impression that the man had once endeavoured
to commit suicide by inflicting there, with a razor, a
self-made wound.

Two of the scars, though obviously healed up, were
so deeply impressed into the skin that at times they
betrayed traces of the warm blood which flowed
beneath. His emotions aroused, these two wounds flushed
redly, as if on the point of reopening.

The effect of these blemishes was to make the man
so hideously ugly that it was disgusting to cast eyes
upon him.

In himself he was of broad stature, and this, with
his height, made him lumbering and ungainly. His
hands were big and filthy, the nails scratched and
cracked, and worn down to the quick.

His clothes were greasy, frayed at the sleeves and
at the bottom of the trousers. His boots were laced
with string.

Repulsive was the only word to describe him. Of
the ravenous wolves, of the cruel, barbarous vultures,
dragged up by the Revolution from the slums to which
they belonged, this man, Istvan Wenzel, was, in appearance
at least, the most vicious, the most terrifying.

To the student of physiognomy he was a man of
vice, and to his lengthy list of undesirable traits might
be added vanity. Surrounded by a city's scum, only
a little better than himself, he was conscious that he
was, for the moment, the centre of interest, that his
words were creating attention: the fact that his
fellow-Communists drew away at his ghoulish laughter did
not seem to wound his sensibilities, even if he were
possessed of any.

"Yes, comrades, he was the first prisoner to escape.
Yet there were others, more of these bourgeois, who
mysteriously vanished just in time to escape the
hangman's rope or our soldiers' bullets. Each time there
was left behind a chess-piece, always the white knight,
and so the man who has been responsible for these
escapes has become known as the White Knight."

There was a shout from the rear. "Ay, comrade,
you say nothing but the truth. I have heard of this
pig, the White Knight. It is said that he has sworn to
rescue the Count Kalman Bakocz. Comrade Szamuelly
is to take a hand in the game. This White Knight will
soon be in Red Mourning, eh, friends?"

"Ay, ay," cried several, amidst a ripple of laughter.

There was a sudden stir, and the people swung
round. At the far end of the square came into view a
group of Red soldiers, laughing and joking. In their
midst three prisoners walked unhappily, doomed to die,
condemned to death by the inhuman Korvin-Klein, the
uneducated, uncouth judge appointed by the Dictator
to try all enemies of the proletariat.

Pushing through the crowd, the soldiers made their
way toward that part of the square above which the
stone lions proudly growled defiance to the world.
Here the three victims were made to stand, calmly
awaiting their fate.

There was silence, a muttered word of command:
the sharp resonant clash of gun-fire echoed across the
square, and three patriots slipped to the ground, killed
by Hungarian bullets that were fired by Hungarian men
at the command of a Hungarian.

Scarcely had the sound of the discharge died away
when Wenzel laughed loudly and slapped his friend
Garami on the shoulder.

"Three more traitors sent about their business, eh,
comrade!" he cried.

Garami, rubbing his shoulder where Wenzel's hand
had caught him, laughed too.

# CHAPTER II

It was eleven o'clock in Balassagyarmat, and the
streets were comparatively pitch dark.

The edict of the Dictator had gone forth—no
lights after ten o'clock P.M.—so that even if the gas
and electricity had not failed the result would have
been the same, for were there not detectives, Terror
Boys, and People's Commissaries to see that the word
of the Workers' Council was obeyed?

Under the present régime the houses and effects
of all were the common property of every one else:
books, food, furniture; there was nothing, if the
occasion arose, to which the comrades of the Commune
could not help themselves.

Not many walked the streets. Here and there
drunken Red soldiers staggered back to their billets,
notwithstanding that prohibition was in force. Here
and there a lurking shadow betokened a detective, or
sometimes a daring bourgeois risking his life to visit
friends.

Only People's Commissaries walked about openly,
or members of the local Soviet.

In some houses there was peace; here lived Communists
who ran with the hounds. In some there was
a significant quiet—bourgeois who were still left in
safety, but who might yet run with the hares.

In one home, the residence of Count Kalman
Bakocz, there was only sorrow, a dull, hopeless,
heart-gnawing despair.

A week ago Terror Boys had found their way into
the house and arrested the Count. In vain his wife had
pleaded for her husband's liberty, unsuccessfully had
his daughter Cecile added her pleas. The Red officer
merely flicked his fingers, gave marching orders, and the
Count was torn from the bosom of his family and flung
into jail, only to be transferred the following morning
to Budapest to await the justice of Korvin-Klein.

Later his son, Francis, returned, and only with a
great effort did Cecile and her mother keep him back
from invoking his friends to assist him in what could
only result in a futile attempt at rescue.

For one week the Countess lay prostrate, unable to
eat for the fear which gripped her heart in a vice. Only
the tender solicitude of Cecile and the brave optimism
of Francis kept her alive.

This was the seventh night after Count Bakocz's
arrest, and again no news other than that he was still
alive. The news-bringer thought fit to withhold the
fact that he was nigh on starving.

Despite the commands of the Dictator there was a
tiny particle of candle throwing a flickering light upon
the shrunken, careworn features of Countess Bakocz as
she lay in bed, her daughter sitting on one side, her son
on the other. Heavy curtains protected the windows,
so that not a gleam of light could escape the room, yet
nevertheless each one was quivering with tension which
could not altogether be concealed, and every time footsteps
echoed in the street outside Cecile held her breath
in terror and Francis clenched his fists.

Countess Bakocz weakly turned her head toward her
son. "What news, son, what news to-night?"

Francis shrugged his shoulders slightly, and turned
his eyes away as he felt them filling with tears. "Still
no further news. Father is still—alive." He swallowed
hard.

"Nothing else, Francis?" Even despair did not dim
her proud eyes so much that she missed the trembling
of his lips.

"Nothing else."

His mother shook her head. "Poor boy, poor boy.
You cannot lie, Francis." She stretched out her
emaciated hand and placed it tenderly upon his, which
lay idly on the coverlet. "Tell me, son, I can bear it."

Unconsciously Francis turned a questioning gaze
upon Cecile, who nodded slightly.

"They say," he commenced chokingly, "that Father
is—is to be tried on—Mon—Monday."

There was no sound from the Countess, not a movement,
but Francis felt the hand clasping his jump
convulsively, and her lower lip twitched unceasingly.

"Mother dear, Mother darling, do not give up
hope." Cecile leaned forward and kissed her on her
bloodless forehead. "Many things may happen. God
will save him. God will save him."

"God must have many tears to shed on our unhappy
country," she replied softly, and from this Cecile knew
that her mother could not even have it in her heart to
put her trust in Heaven.

Nor could she blame her mother, for she wondered
what evil any of them could have done that they should
be visited with this calamity. For twenty years the
Count and his family had lived in this selfsame house,
leading a God-fearing life.

To the house of his forefathers he had brought his
wife twenty years back, and there his daughter Cecile
had been born a year later, and two years afterward
Francis.

During the War he had fought courageously for his
country. Now, with the War scarcely at an end, he
was seized by his countrymen and thrown into jail.
His crime? Raising his voice on behalf of his unhappy
people, beseeching the peasants to look into their
hearts, where, he said, they would find they wanted
nothing of revolution, wanted only peace to till the
land and rear their children.

There was silence in the room; the candle burned
smaller. When that was gone Cecile had another bit
to put in its place, but after that ... In future they
might not have even the welcoming flame of the candle
to cheer them; nothing but the dismal dark of the
night.

Suddenly Francis raised his head. He heard the hoot
of an owl.

"'Tis Kirchhoff!" he cried, and running lightly
across the room he disappeared downstairs.

Cecile shivered ominously. Kirchhoff brought only
news, and "no news was good news." Was it that
Francis had been misled? Perhaps the trial of her
father had been that morning. A little cry arose to her
throat, and her hand flew up to stop it, but too late.
Her mother had heard; she looked at Cecile with the
expression of a hunted deer.

"He is a long time," she said. Cecile knew her
mother's thoughts had been following the trend of
her own.

Was Francis never coming up again? She wanted to
scream hysterically. Surely he must know that they
would be anxious. The seconds ticked by. Not a
movement from below, not a sound to be heard.

Another moment and Cecile would have called, but
there was a cautious step, and almost as soon as she
recognized the footsteps of Francis she was conscious
that there was some one with him.

Hypnotically she watched the door until it swung
open. So Francis was bringing Kirchhoff up. Why?
Why? She trembled, but the man who entered was not
Kirchhoff, but a stranger.

"Mother dear, do not be excited, but there is news,
wonderful news. This gentleman has come from Buda.
He is Mr Arnold Terhune, of London."

Countess Bakocz flashed a startled glance at her
daughter. An Englishman! A late foe, countryman
of an enemy land with whom peace had not yet been
signed! How could he bring good news?

Cecile did not meet her look, for she was gazing
upon the young man who entered, raptly assimilating
the picture he presented. Her thoughts were that
here was a man connected with good news. If he
bore information which should hearten them all what
matter his nationality?

The Countess inclined her head coldly as the
Englishman bowed.

"You must forgive my intrusion, Countess, but
there is a matter of great importance which I must
discuss with you."

"I am at your service, monsieur." Try as she might
she could not keep the chilling hauteur from her voice.

How different from Cecile, whose eyes were sparkling,
and whose cheeks were flushing! He possessed
a wonderful voice, this Englishman who spoke their
language with scarcely a trace of foreign accent.

Arnold Terhune glanced around him.

"We are alone?"

A tear welled into the eyes of the Countess.
"Absolutely," she replied, and the tinge of bitterness
and hopelessness in her voice betrayed its story of
tragedy, its tale of faithless servants, of forbidden
friends.

The Englishman inclined his head. "Then I may
speak, for it is of vital importance that what I have to
say goes no further. Countess, I bear a message to you
from one who is known as the White Knight."

"The White Knight!" The exclamation was from
Cecile. With those three words banished hope returned
in full force. The White Knight! If the rumour of
this mysterious person had not yet reached the
proletariat, the same could not be said of the persecuted
bourgeoisie and the hunted aristocracy. Like the spread
of a forest fire, the name of the White Knight had passed
from mouth to mouth with inconceivable rapidity.

Stories of his wonderful rescues had penetrated into
every house and home which sheltered one of the hated
bourgeoisie, his saga was told in whispers and in snatches.
To the gentle families of the forgotten people his name
was a glimpse of blue breaking in between the heavy
thunderclouds of revolution, a veritable star of hope,
shining undimmed through an overpowering blackness.

Countess Bakocz raised herself slightly on her
elbows, and the blood flowed into her face. "The
White Knight!" she whispered. "God be praised!
Then he knows of my husband's plight?"

"Too well, Countess. Moreover, he plans to rescue
him—has sworn to do so."

"Sworn to rescue him!" The Countess faintly
repeated the words, unable to credit the fact. Then
joyfully she spoke again. "Cecile, Francis, listen!
The White Knight is to return your father to us.
Oh, children, children, tell me I am not dreaming!
Make me believe what I hear is true!"

Cecile's lips trembled suspiciously as she flung her
arms around the invalid. "Oh, Mother darling, of
course it is true!" Across her mother's shoulder her
glance met that of Arnold Terhune.

His eyes held hers, clearly and firmly. In that brief
second there was a change in both of them, though
neither was conscious of the fact. They only felt an
inexplicable stirring somewhere deep down within them.

Arnold Terhune, though dressed in the dirty shapeless
clothes of the Hungarian labourer, with a three or
four days' growth of hair upon his chin, and a very
close-cropped head, could not entirely conceal the lithe,
athletic grace with which he carried himself, any more
than his unshaven chin hid its firm strength.

Dressed more suitably, he would have been the
personification of virile English manhood. He was
inclined to be tall, just under six feet, yet his hands and
feet were unusually small. His broad shoulders hinted
at robust health and physical strength; his slimmer
waist at a healthy life and arduous exercise.

Well might he have appealed to Cecile, who, herself,
was remarkably beautiful, and of a dusky, gipsy
type. Her dark, rippling hair admirably set off her
almost black eyes and pure olive complexion, while her
tiny lips curved seductively into a Cupid's bow.

Perhaps her only fault was a strained, pinched look,
the result of four years' privation, so soon succeeded
by the worse rigours of the revolution, and subsequent
Commune.

Countess Bakocz turned eagerly to her visitor.
"Tell us, monsieur, of this rescue. When and how?
Oh, how I long to clasp my husband in my arms again!
God be pleased to grant the White Knight success,
monsieur. You will tell us his plans?"

Terhune smiled, then slowly shook his head. "The
White Knight alone knows his plans, Countess. He
alone plots his coups."

"But you, monsieur, you know this White Knight?"

Terhune's face broke into a smile again, but this time
there was something of hero-worship, of reverence,
in it.

"Yes, Countess, he is my friend, and leader."

"Your leader? You work for the White Knight?" Cecile
it was who put the question, and she clasped her
hands together in her eager excitement.

"Yes, m'selle. I am his lieutenant. I do what I
can; it is so little. I wish I could do more, much more,
for it makes my heart bleed to see the Hungary I have
always loved plunged into the present chaos."

"You love Hungary, monsieur, yet you are an
Englishman, an enemy!" There was a gentle reproof
in her tones as the Countess spoke.

"We are not our masters in war-time, Countess. I
fought for my country, not for myself."

"Forgive me, monsieur." The Countess was contrite.
"I should not have said that, but I must plead
my awful worry in excuse. I was surprised. To fight
against us—and now——!"

"We are already forgetting. Deep in our hearts
we English feel for your nation. We feel you have
been the cat's-paw of German diplomacy. Now that
humanity is being outraged by bestial tyranny, we wish
only to aid and assist. Were circumstances different
England might do more, but her people do not know
of your plight, have no idea even of the revolution here.
Russia, yes, but Hungary ... Our papers are full
of peace and future prosperity."

"The White Knight, is he English too?"

Terhune nodded. "Yes, Countess, he is, but I beg
you not to question me with regard to him. It is his
wish, his policy too, that he remain merely a name, a
myth. His mystery is his second lieutenant."

The Countess buried her face in her hands and
quietly sobbed, while Terhune shuffled his feet
uncomfortably, wondering what he had said to have this
effect.

Presently she looked up and smiled faintly. "Forgive
a woman's tears, monsieur, but it grieves me that
our unhappy country must look to enemies for succour
against our own people."

"Not entirely, Countess, for there are those in
Vienna and in Budapest who seek to form a
counter-revolution, a White Army instead of a red. I may not
mention names, but——" His eloquent gesture was
expressive, and the three Hungarians who listened to
him felt a glow of warmth stealing through their bodies.

"But now, Countess, for the reason of my visit here.
There is information I require, knowledge I must
acquire. Listen...."

It was half an hour later when Terhune slipped
away, leaving behind three people who in less than an
hour had been pulled from the depths of misery into
the heights of hope and confidence. While the Countess
dreamed of the future, of the time when she should
see her husband again, Francis pictured the adventure
and the thrill of the rescue, and wished he could help.
Cecile was quiet and thoughtful. Too full for words
at the thought of having her father with her once
again, she could not, nevertheless, banish the constantly
recurring picture of Arnold Terhune, standing in the
light of the flickering candle, his glance meeting hers
across her mother's shoulder.

# CHAPTER III

Consternation reigned at the meeting
of the Workers' Council. Bela Kun had been
sorting out his papers preparatory to suggesting
fresh edicts for the suppression of the bourgeoisie.

"Comrades," he had begun, when suddenly his
eyes caught sight of a paper on his table, on which his
startled eyes read his own name, in handwriting which
he did not recognize, signed by the name "White
Knight."

Stopping short in his speech, he picked it up and
hastily read its message:

To BELA KUN,

Do not hope to execute the Count Bakocz. I have
sworn to rescue him, and I never fail.

THE WHITE KNIGHT

Bela Kun swore. "Listen, comrades," and he read
the brief note out to the members of the Council.

"My God! how did you get that?" shouted
Szamuelly.

Bela Kun shook his head. "I don't know. It wasn't
with my papers when I left home." He looked round
with suspicion.

"What does it mean?" asked one.

Bela Kun sneered. "What does it mean? It means
that this White Knight is going to try to rescue Count
Bakocz."

"Well, what does he want to warn you for?"

"I know why," interrupted Szamuelly. "Because
this man, this bourgeois, having been successful once or
twice in his ventures, now imagines he is omnipotent."

"Has he always been successful?" This from a
man who sat farther away, a small unpleasant-looking
member, Garami, who had just recently heard of the
White Knight from Wenzel.

Bela Kun hesitated. "Well—er—he has certainly
been fortunate up to the moment."

"I see," said Garami. "And may I ask you, comrade,
by what means the dog has done this?"

"In many ways, Comrade Garami. From reports
I have had he is as strong as an ape, as cunning as
a monkey, as elusive as a cricket. He has money,
for in one case he bribed the jailer with more than I
have heard of for a long time. Did he not?" Bela Kun
turned to Szamuelly.

Szamuelly laughed unpleasantly. "Yes, comrade. I
found the jailer with the money in his pocket. I hung
the man, and appropriated the crowns."

"As strong as an ape, I believe you said. Why do
you say this?" Again Garami put a question.

Bela Kun frowned. "You are in a questioning
mood to-day, Garami."

"For a reason, comrade, which you will learn if you
will answer my question first."

"Well, if you must know, the reason we, Szamuelly
and me, believe that this traitor is strong is because he
once overcame two of our brave troops, put in charge
of a prisoner, by cracking their heads together."

Garami grinned unpleasantly. "Supposing I can
put you in touch with a good comrade who isn't afraid
of this bourgeois, this White Knight, as he calls himself.
Would he be of use to you, comrade?"

Bela Kun thought for a moment. "Would he act
as jailer to Count Bakocz, think you?"

Garami laughed. "He would act as jailer to the
Devil himself if it so be there was good money to be
earned."

"Who is this man?"

"Istvan Wenzel."

"Istvan Wenzel!" repeated another member. "Ay,
comrade, I know Istvan Wenzel. A good man, him.
As strong as an ox and as ugly as sin. His face would
be enough to frighten this White Knight away, if it is
the man of whom I am thinking."

"You are thinking of the right man," Garami
agreed. "Wenzel can pick up a man in each hand."

"Can you get in touch with him, Garami?" asked
the Dictator.

"He lives but three flats below me."

"It is good. Bring him to me to-morrow. If he is
all your praises sing him to be, he ought well to be a
match for this dog who writes me these notes."

The next morning Wenzel accompanied Garami to
Bela Kun.

The streets were full of cars in which sat members
of the Workers' Council, Administrators of the Country,
or even People's Commissaries. They, who preached
Socialism, Communism, and Proletarianism, lived in
ease and comfort, surrounded with goods, food, and
furniture filched from the bourgeoisie.

Meanwhile the people starved, and rode in tramcars
of which the glass was broken or missing. If they were
ignorant, uncouth, and wore the Red cockade, they
might be granted a food ticket and be allowed to pay
high prices for the privilege of eating to live.

If they were intellectual, if they lived and worked
by the fruit of their brains, if they were decent-living,
moral, and religious, they were bourgeoisie and could
starve. There were no food tickets for such as they.

So, though the city was gay with the red bunting
which hung from every roof and every window,
stretched from house to house, and with the music
played by gipsy bands, beneath it all the people, the real
Hungarian people, like the proud Magyar aristocracy,
wept, and the tears were of blood.

Such thoughts as these did not worry the boisterous
Wenzel or the sly Garami, as they strode along the
streets.

"It's good to be alive this morning, with the sun
shining, and the town all gay with flags and colour;
what say you, Garami?"

"I am with you, comrade."

"What puzzles me is why the counter-revolution
worry their heads about changing it all. Here we are,
governed by ourselves, can help ourselves to everything
we want. What more does anybody want? That's
what I say. What more can one want? Give me a
bellyful, and money in my pockets, and a woman now
and again, and you can keep the rest. That's what I
say. Keep the rest."

"Ho, ho!" chortled Garami. "You say that, you,
Wenzel? Who took the best bed from the house at
the corner of the Andrassy Ut? Who brought away
the chairs and the sofa and the table from the home of
Pazmany, the Professor? Who drinks his fill of wine,
and forces his way into the theatre? That's what you
say?"

Wenzel spat, as a passing automobile whizzed past.
"Bah! You talk like a babbling brook. Come, the
mention of wine and food makes me feel empty.
Comrade Bela Kun must make haste. I must eat."

In due course they were shown in to Bela Kun, who
eyed the big Wenzel up and down, and then smiled
cunningly.

"You know why I wished to see you?" he questioned.

"Yes, comrade. It's some one you want to guard
the Count Bakocz from being rescued." He stretched
out his long arms and opened wide his huge hand, then
slowly clenched his fingers together, and grinned evilly.
"just let me get any of these bourgeois between my two
hands and I'll wring their necks. Curse them!"

"Then you will take the job on?"

"Yes—at a price, comrade."

"You needn't worry about money, Wenzel. The
Government pay well those who are faithful to it." He
leaned forward and his eyes narrowed. "Only
see you do not fail, my friend, for otherwise you will
find your own neck in a noose."

Wenzel burst into a bellow of raucous laughter. "I
shall not fail. Don't you worry, comrade. This White
Knight has bitten off more than he can chew. I'm the
man you want. That's what I say. It's me you want."

"So be it." Bela Kun waved them away. "Don't
forget, Comrade Wenzel, don't let him escape. You
will hang heavier than the Count Bakocz!"

* * * * * *

Sunday! The day before the trial of Count Kalman
Bakocz for treason. Trial! It was mockery to call the
proceedings which occurred by this name.

Counter-revolutionaries, enemies of the proletariat;
all such who were caught were imprisoned, and in
due course, usually within twenty-four hours, brought
before Korvin-Klein. Trial—judgment should be the
word! There was no opportunity for defence, no
witnesses brought forward for the defendant. Only
prosecution and execution.

In the prisons of Hungary were bourgeois hostages,
held by the Communists against the possibility of
hostile demonstrations from the people who groaned
beneath the heel of the Soviet. Cast into prison, herded,
many of them together, into small filthy cells, they
barely subsisted.

Womenfolk were allowed to bring them what food
they could obtain. Baskets, bags, packages of food
were handed in at the prison gates by weeping women,
for husbands, brothers, and sons.

The Red guards received the parcels and, when the
women had gone, ate the food themselves and drank
the wine. Occasionally, nay, more often than not, these
hostages, these prisoners, died. That night there would
be a stealthy procession to the waterside, and presently
the waters of the Danube would part with a splash, and
the body of the prisoner would float down, to disappear
for evermore.

Food would still arrive, relations never hearing the
tragedy of their loved ones, and the jeering Reds would
gobble it up. What stories the grim walls of the
Budapest prisons could tell of the Revolution of 1919,
what tales of death and torture!

Count Bakocz was granted a cell to himself. The
remorseless Soviet had determined he should die, and
there was to be no mistake. So he was taken away from
fellow-prisoners and thrown into solitary confinement,
to see only the faces of his two jailers, one during the
day, and one during the night.

Always the ghastly, repulsive features of Wenzel
haunted him, asleep and awake. At times he could not
sleep. Wenzel was for ever peeping through the grill,
and every time the Communist gave his guttural laugh,
and greeted him with rude, boisterous remarks.

"Well, my friend, still alive I see. Ho, ho! Too
bad. Fancy, you have not been hanged or shot yet!
Too bad. I must see what I can do for you.

"Wouldn't you like to escape, my little chicken?
That wouldn't do at all, for little Wenzel would hang
in your place." Then he would spit through the grill.
"Pah! The more you bourgeois hang the better pleased
shall I be, that's what I say."

Three days, or rather three nights, Wenzel had
guarded his prisoner, and still no attempt had been
made to rescue the Count. Only Wenzel laughed;
the Workers' Council was becoming nervous, for
regularly each morning Bela Kun received a message
from the White Knight.

Whence came the slips of paper he knew not, and
once it was not a message, but a tiny white piece of
carved wood—a white knight. Another time there
were two knights, the white one untouched, but the
red carved in two.

This, with the knowledge that his Government was
merely resting on the brink of a volcano, gave Bela
Kun no rest. On all sides the country was likely to be
attacked, by Rumanians, by Czecho-Slovakians, and by
Serbs.

His life became harassed, and he in his turn
tightened the thumb-screws on the unfortunate
bourgeoisie. New laws were made each day and flashed to
every part of the country, there to be put into force
by the local People's Commissaries and the local
councils.

"More than two people never to meet together in
the street." This, amazing as it may seem, was actually
put into force, and innocent citizens were unable to
stop and chat to friends for fear of counter-revolution,
of plot, and counter-plot. Only Red soldiers could jest
together, or those who wore the Red emblem, or those
who met in Parliament Square to witness the execution
of enemies of the proletariat.

When Wenzel went on duty Garami was there to
meet him.

"Ho, Wenzel!" he said, "to-night's the last opportunity
to rescue Count Bakocz. You must keep your
eye open—that is, if this bourgeois really intends to
attempt a rescue."

Wenzel struck his chest. "Why worry, you? Do
you believe that I shall let pass anyone? Bah! This is
the last night our friend inside will ever live to see. I
must see him fall to-morrow. Ha! Old skin and bones
won't dent the ground overmuch, comrade. That's what
I say."

Garami looked pleased. "Ay, comrade, it was a
good thing I did for every one, was it not, to have you
put as jailer here. You will not forget, eh?"

Wenzel grinned. "I shall not forget, friend. One
tenth of what I make goes to you for the recommendation.
Easy money, comrade. And what if I am offered
a bribe?"

"Hush!" Garami looked round, startled, and reaching
up he placed his hand over the other man's mouth.
"Canst not keep a still tongue, chatterer?" He lowered
his voice. "A tenth to me, Wenzel, a tenth to me."

"Ho! Ho! Ho!" Wenzel opened his huge throat
and roared with laughter. "And will you share a tenth
of the rope, Jew? Give me less money and less rope,
that's what I say. Less money. My neck needs no
gentle bandage, thank you, comrade."

Garami shrugged his shoulders. "I meant nothing,"
he muttered between his teeth. "Well, good night,
Wenzel. There are soldiers within call, good Red
comrades, who will not hesitate to run a bourgeois
through with bayonets. If there is anything wrong,
shout."

"Yah! Anything wrong! What can be wrong?
If anyone comes I will spit on them and they will run.
Good night, comrade. Let no uneasy dreams disturb
you. To-morrow Count Bakocz will—die." His eyes
flashed joyfully, as if he were already watching the
life blood draining away from the victim's body, and
his gloating expression caused Garami to hurry the
quicker away.

Ample preparations had been made to guard the
prison well. Posted in different parts of the building
were groups of Red soldiers. No one could enter
without the knowledge of the guards, and even if
intruders were successful in this there was still the
huge Wenzel to overcome.

Garami breathed a little easier as he left the prison.
He had been responsible for the appointment of
Wenzel, and if anything should go wrong he was not
too sure of his comrades' affability, that he would not
hang side by side with his protégé.

That, therefore, was the position at ten o'clock on
Sunday night, the night before the prisoner was to be
tried, which was, of course, synonymous with death.
If the White Knight failed the Count would die.

The hours wore on. The soldiers sang and ate,
drank and joked, and Wenzel sat on his chair, outside
the Count's cell, singing too, his huge voice echoing
through the dim corridors so that prisoners in distant
cells could not sleep.

At intervals he would open the grill to shout insults
at the hapless prisoner, picturing the death that would
overtake him in the morning, by all of which the Count
remained unmoved.

He knew, just as every one else knew, that on the
morrow he would die, and so he gave his last thoughts
to the family left behind at Balassagyarmat. If a tear
rolled down his cheek it was not because he was afraid
of death. His poor Elizabeth, his poor Cecile! Only
the seventeen-year-old Francis to guard and protect
them, and such friends as could creep to them unseen.

What of his family at Balassagyarmat? Since the
night Arnold Terhune had brought the news of the
White Knight's oath they had heard nothing. When
Sunday night arrived they did not attempt sleep.
Cecile and Francis joined their mother, and in the
darkness they held hands and comforted one another
through the lonely hours.

With anxious hearts, with fear that the White
Knight would fail counter-balancing their hope that
he would succeed, could they, by some miracle, have
seen the prison then, at two o'clock in the morning,
they might have flinched with horror, for still nothing
had happened.

The guards still talked and sang, Wenzel still sat
on his stool. The only movement was that of a Red
soldier who staggered about with bottles of wine,
liberally dosing the guards with liquor.

From somewhere or other he produced yet more
bottles. "Come along, comrades, some more," he
cried, and the guards grinned and held out their mugs.

The soldier served them all. "Let us—let—let us
drink a toast," he called out, "l-let us drink to the
Revolution."

"Ay, ay," answered the men, and they drank deeply.

"Must take some to the others," muttered the
proposer, and he staggered away.

The noisy rowdyism gradually died away as the
potent wine took effect. The drink must have been
stronger than usual, for the Reds found their heads
nodding—nodding.... Ten minutes later every man
was sound asleep, and when the soldier returned who
had, in his generosity, visited the other guards all
through the prison, and served out drink to toast the
Revolution, he chuckled, and straightened up.

"Drunken swine," he muttered. It was Arnold Terhune.

The first part of his task completed, there was now
the hardest part to perform.

With noiseless steps he traversed the corridors going
in the direction of Count Bakocz's cell. At the actual
corridor he came to a halt and listened. Round the
corner he could hear the heavy breathing of Wenzel,
who now seemed quieter.

With scarcely a movement Terhune leaned forward
till he could see what was happening, and his heart
leaped with joy as he noticed that Wenzel, though
seated with his back to the cell, was just slightly turned
away from him.

If he could but creep along without being seen or
heard he hoped to succeed in getting near enough
to use a chloroform pad which he had ready. He
determined to try.

Squeezing his back against the wall, and moving with
the utmost caution, he turned the corner. If Wenzel
should glance only just slightly round now, he would
be seen. Breathing a prayer that Wenzel would not
move he advanced slowly forward.

Four feet, three feet, two feet. Another few paces
and he could jump and catch the unconscious Wenzel
unprepared, but at that moment Wenzel turned.

For a second or two Terhune seemed paralysed with
astonishment, until Wenzel gave a roar, and would
have jumped for him, but the Englishman was
infinitesimally quicker, and even as Wenzel commenced to
move he had quickly advanced the extra pace and with
a dull thud brought a revolver butt down upon Wenzel's
defenceless head, and the jailer collapsed with a groan.

Terhune worked with nightmare haste. From his
pocket he produced a key, a duplicate of the original,
and before Count Bakocz was even aware of what was
happening, had opened the cell-door and was pulling
the bewildered aristocrat away.

Terhune had not bargained on Wenzel's strength.
No sooner had the echoing footsteps of the two men
faded away in the distance than Wenzel raised his
ponderous frame from the floor and stumblingly
commenced the pursuit, blood pouring down his face and
blinding his eyes.

Whatever drug it was with which Terhune had
doctored the guards' wine, it could not have been a
very powerful one, for even as the two men rushed
past several of the guards sat up, rubbing their eyes
in bewilderment, and by the time Wenzel was on the
scene they were all sitting up from the positions into
which they had fallen.

The sight of Wenzel, his face and clothes covered
in blood, rushing into their midst, was their first
intimation that anything was wrong.

"Dogs! Beasts!" furiously shouted Wenzel. "The
prisoner has escaped!"

There was a dramatic silence while the stupefied
guards gazed at one another, and observing this,
Wenzel gabbled with rage. "Fools, dolts, idiots! follow
them! follow me!" and rushing past them, kicking
them as he went, he led the pursuit, and the guards,
realizing at last what had happened, rushed pell-mell
after him.

Wenzel was outside, staring up and down the street.

"Which way?" the guards cried, but Wenzel shook
his head helplessly.

Some distance away two shadows darted across the
dark street, but one of the guards saw. "That way,
look!" he called; and the guards set off in a ragged
group, Wenzel leading them.

Here and there against an occasional light they
saw twin shadows fleeing from them, one stumbling and
falling, the other pulling.

Gradually Wenzel and the guards caught up.
Another moment and the two who were pursued would
have been caught, but seeing this, they parted company,
one to fall helplessly to the ground, where he
lay without moving, and the other to speed still quicker
away, till he was lost from sight.

Wenzel struck a match. The fallen one, his face
smothered in the mud of the road, was the Count.

"Ho, ho, comrades!" hoarsely cried out Wenzel in
triumph, "back to the jail with him. Get up!" he
ordered, and kicked the man at his feet, but the Count
did not move. "Fainted. Pah! the chicken. Come,
friends, carry him back. I hope they will lash him for
this."

The guards dragged the helpless man along the
streets, till inside the prison they let him fall, and
there he lay, cold and stiff.

Suddenly Wenzel gave a cry, and with his already
filthy handkerchief wiped away the mud from the
face of the prisoner, and having done so gazed with
stupefaction at what he saw.

It was not Count Bakocz who lay there, but a two
or three days' old corpse of another man, dressed in
the Count's clothes.

The White Knight had won again.

# CHAPTER IV

Because of the rigid censorship not one of
the Budapest newspapers hinted at the escape
of Count Bakocz; yet the news was passed on
from mouth to mouth, was repeated and commented
upon, until it finally percolated into the uttermost
environs of the city. Disclaimed by the risen scum,
in their requisitioned mansions, acclaimed in the
sanctuaries of the refugees; by the first it was
furtively believed but outwardly denied, and by
the second inwardly discredited but optimistically
confirmed.

At the Supreme Soviet Council, in permanent session
at the Hapsburg Palace, questions and answers were
flung to and fro across the table. Comrade blamed
comrade, and easily aroused suspicions disfigured the
already brutal faces.

Their prey, like a plucked goose, hot and sizzling
from the spit, had been snatched from their watering
mouths, and the anger of the rulers of the nation was
unbounded. Their pride was insulted, their prestige
threatened.

They turned their knit and scowling brows toward
Szamuelly, who smiled banefully.

"Peace, comrades! What matters the loss of one
chicken from such a well-filled run? Who misses a
single grain of wheat from a bushel?"

"Ho," said Pogany, "but do hens only inhabit the
roost? There are also cocks which crow."

"Yes, and from one grain of wheat may spring
many other grains, remember, Comrade Szamuelly,"
cried another.

"Quite so, quite so, friends. I agree with you,
and that is why I say—give me my way. Three days'
loot and pillage and I swear there would be no cocks
left to crow. Death to the bourgeoisie! Hang the
magnates! Let them join the traitor Tisza. What
say you, comrades?"

From several directions came affirmative cries.
"Well said, Szamuelly! three days' sack." "Well
said! 'Tis what I say too."

Pleased with the reception of his words Szamuelly
continued, his voice rising higher as the prospect of the
sanguinary feast for which he had long been working
seemed appreciably nearer.

"Remember, friends, the world looks upon us as
disciples of Russia to-day, to-morrow we may be leading
other countries along the road to freedom. A glorious
millennium is before us, yet there is still work to be
done and done well. We have enemies working against
us. Any moment may see a counter-revolution
commencing. We must strike now, kill these pestilent
rebels, and plant fear into the hearts of the waverers.
As, in the past, we have been ruled by the whip, so
now must we govern with a rod of iron. Kill, kill!
Let the red blood spurting from the corpses of the
bourgeoisie carry its own message." He laughed.
"There will be many who will be pleased to join
our ranks afterwards."

He sat down, the big hall resounding with feverish
applause, and only the chosen of Lenin, Bela Kun,
President of the Council, remained silent. His hate
for his superiors, his lust for power, were not one
whit less than that of his bloodthirsty lieutenant, yet
he feared to say the word which would permit the
execution of a measure which might prove to be the
blackest blot in the history of Hungary.

What streak of caution, what strange emotion
restrained him, none can say. Perhaps he feared ghosts
of the past, perhaps shadows of the Hapsburgs,
aghast at the sacrilege of this invasion of their sacred
domain, strung together his lips with spiritual threads.
Whatever it may have been bleeding Budapest was
spared; the ravenous wolves contented themselves with
spasmodic raids and petty pilfery.

"Not yet, Comrade Szamuelly. The time is not yet.
You must wait. Perhaps one day in the future——"

Szamuelly laughed scornfully. "Wait! Have we
not waited all our lives for the emancipation of the
workmen? Have we not planned and plotted to gather
the reins of government into our own hands, to rid the
country of the accursed gentry, the proud aristocracy?
Are we all afraid?" He spread his arms dramatically.

From one came a growl. It was the sullen Pogany,
the Minister for War. "Hold hard, Szamuelly! be
careful whom you accuse of cowardice. Yet I agree
with Bela Kun. 'Tis better to wait. We must be
recognized as a government by the Entente that the world
may know Communism is come to stay. Besides, it is
possible that we may go too far——"

Szamuelly jumped up from his chair with a gesture
of disgust. "Bah! A paltry excuse! It is not going
far enough which we should fear. We must crush the
dogs under our heels, grind them into the dust, till
their backbones are broken and their brains jellied.
It is a dead man who does not strike one in the
back."

It was Kunfi, the ex-journalist, who next interrupted.
"Very good, Szamuelly, but in the meantime—what
of the White Knight? Can you crush his bones so that
he rescues no more of the bourgeoisie? Can you hang
him in Parliament Square?"

There was a brief silence, and Szamuelly became,
once again, the centre of interest.

"If the rope does not break, comrades," he boasted.

Bela Kun smiled softly. "Not so quickly, friend
Szamuelly. I have now sent for one Wenzel who
claimed to be a better man than the White Knight, and
yet—I am afraid Comrade Wenzel must hang. At any
moment now he may arrive, and you shall hear, before
he dies, how he fared."

"In the meantime——?"

"We will discuss affairs of State. For instance, I am
informed by Comrade Agoston that there are treasures
still untouched in the Castle Gisella. We ought to teach
its occupants the meaning of the word Communism.
What say you, friends?"

"Ay, ay." The confirmation was unanimous.

Before anyone could speak again there was an
interruption. The doors of the council chamber swung
open and an officer of the Red Army entered.

"Well!" Annoyed by the intrusion, Bela Kun
turned to the man, who stood there, unshaven, dirty,
and utterly disreputable. Once he had been a refractory
private; but on the strength of a long record of
disciplinary breaches and subsequent punishment he was
considered worthy of a better rank in the proletarian
army.

"Comrade Wenzel has disappeared."

Kunfi laughed gutturally. "He took your threat to
heart, comrade."

Bela Kun ignored his fellow-councillor and frowned
at the officer.

"Friend, I gave you orders to arrest Comrade
Wenzel. How mean you he has disappeared?"

The other shrugged his shoulders. "Merely that
when I arrived Comrade Wenzel was not there. Neither
had he been at his room for several days. One cannot
arrest an absent man." He laughed slightly, as if
memory of the past tickled his sense of humour.

"Did you search his room?"

"Yes, and found——"

"What?" Impatiently Bela Kim leaned forward.

The soldier stretched out his right hand, which was
clenched. Slowly he opened his fingers, exposing on
his palm something which made the Communist sit
upright with a slight start. That at which he looked
was a white knight.

* * * * * *

The Great Hungarian Plain, awe-inspiring in its
rugged splendour, rises here and there to rocky peaks
and granite eminences, upon many of which stately
castles and impregnable fortresses proudly rear their
turrets, for the Great Plain has been, for past centuries,
the Armageddon of Europe. Here the fierce Magyars
have stemmed the invasion of the Turkish hordes, have
battled and died for the Cross. Here, too, at different
times have the Roman Empire, Byzantium, Friuli, and
Saxony all paid tribute to the unconquerable fighters of
Hungary.

Now once again, not yet recovered from the ravages
of the Great War, it was to be the scene of a tussle,
perhaps not so bloody in its action, yet none the less
significant in its outcome. As Hungary, in the past,
had withstood the onslaught of the fanatics of the
Crescent, saved Europe from Mahomet, now in 1919
it was to fight for Europe once again, for here, on the
Plain, the encroaching Bolsheviks were encountering
the indomitable peasants, the tillers of the soil, the
defenders of the country.

The battle was not of swords, of guns, or of cannon,
but of insidious propaganda undermining common
sense, of bombastic promises, impossible innovations,
promiscuous hangings, against all of which only
tradition and unswerving loyalty to the Fatherland
made stand.

The saga of the Great Plain is unsung, the epic of
its peasantry unwritten, but the time will come when
the world will awaken to its obligations, and in all
gratitude repay the debt it owes in story, song, and
history. As yet, however, stunned by the years of
travail, bewildered by defeat, hypnotized by the
imported emissaries of Lenin and Trotsky, the peasants
listened to the rantings of the Communists, and slowly
absorbed their teachings. Twenty-five acres of land
free for each man—the prospect was enticing—to those
who had worked the day long for the big magnates,
the autocratic landowners of Hungary, as had their
fathers, even their grandfathers, before them. They
listened, and in the end their brows frowned, their
faces creased into ugly lines, and they looked toward
the castles and the fortresses and growled....

The Gisella Castle stood alone in its grandeur, the
nearest town three miles away. Built many hundred
years ago, its solid sides seemed untouched by the
passage of time. If the outer walls were green with
moss they were nevertheless as formidable and
unapproachable as ever, prepared to yield only to modern
high-powered explosives.

Here lived Imre Kiss and his daughter Elizabeth,
all unconscious that away in Budapest Bela Kun and
Company had cast envious eyes upon its splendours;
and so, on a sparkling spring morning, when all nature
seemed to sing with joy, they peacefully broke the fast.

Even Imre, conquering his fading sight only with
the aid of pince-nez, could not fail to notice an air of
elation in Elizabeth's manner as she joyfully partook
of her meal.

"Why, daughter, what witchery are you up to this
morning? It is a long time since I have seen you so
happy."

Elizabeth glanced at him lovingly and smiled.
"Father dear, you have not forgotten?"

"Forgotten!" The old man wrinkled his forehead
and peered at her with a puzzled expression upon his
face. "Have I forgotten something? Does Francis,
your cousin, visit us this day?"

She laughed crooningly, so that its music rippled and
echoed round the panelled hall. "Father dear, it is the
fifteenth to-day. Does that date mean nothing to you?"

He looked at her, dismayed. "Bless my heart, child,
it is your birthday! Dear, dear! Then to-day you are
twenty-three years of age—and—and—" across the
table his glance rested steadily upon her, longer than
it had done for many years, "—why, dearest child,
you are more beautiful than ever."

He gazed entranced upon the picture she presented.
Through the leaded windows the sun was throwing a
golden gleam, in the path of which she sat, so that she
was bathed in its brilliancy.

"My child—twenty-three to-day." Murmuringly
the words escaped; they were but thoughts which
passed through his mind. "Just twenty years
ago—she—died, and now—yet did she die? Is not my
daughter Elizabeth she, the other Elizabeth? Are not
those big, dark eyes, so full of pride and sympathy too,
her eyes? It was when I first looked into them that
I worshipped her. It is her chin you lift so proudly,
dear; there is no doubt that you are born and bred a
Magyar. You love Hungary too, don't you, daughter?"

At the mention of the word Elizabeth's face changed
yet again, just as her expressions had altered following
the trend of his reverie. From joy and happiness to
naïve pleasure at his praise, then sadness, and a vague,
indefinable longing. Then once more her features
mirrored her thoughts. Pride of birth, of race, of
country! Imre needed no affirmation to his question.

He shook his head from side to side. "But now,
your birthday has arrived and I have no present for
you. Tut, tut! My memory is becoming execrable.
Perhaps it is my work—I devote too much time to it."

He looked away, out of the window, dreaming of
his lifelong work, his chosen task. Once he had been
a soldier, but that was many years ago. He married
late, and when his beloved wife died he became a
scholar. He dipped and delved into the past, until
slowly there was born within him a passion to write of
the lives of the kings of Hungary. So he began when
Elizabeth was but a child of ten.

Soon now, perhaps in two or three years, he would
write "Finis," but at times he feared, frightened that
the Reaper would forestall him in his cherished
ambition.

Of late the apprehension had become deeper; it
seemed to him that there were moments when his
heart fluttered strangely, and so he flung himself into
his work, studying from morning till night. Thus he
had forgotten an important anniversary, and he chided
himself.

He need not have done so. Elizabeth understood
and sympathized. She left her chair and knelt by his
side, laying her head on his knees.

"Father darling, you must not say that. Your work
means as much to me. I long for the time when your
name will ring throughout Hungary, echo from town
to town, and later trumpet to the world the glories of
our saintly kings, and all they have done for mighty
Europe."

Bending forward so that his thick, snow-white locks
swept over his forehead, he placed his lips upon the
masses of her black hair, after which he ran his fingers
through its tresses, lovingly caressing the silky texture,
admiring the healthy sheen.

"Well, well, child, let us hope that the time will
come very soon. But now, what news to-day from
Budapest? How proceeds the Peace Conference in
Paris? Assuredly the Entente will be merciful to
broken Hungary. England and America will not
forget us."

Elizabeth frowned. "Again there are no papers,
Father. I do not understand their absence and I am
nervous."

"Nervous! God bless my soul! What nonsense
are you talking? Why should you be nervous?"

She sighed. "I do not know. It may be merely
a vague impression, yet since King Charles was
dethroned——"

"Tut, tut, child! Do you not believe that it was
diplomacy on the part of Count Michael Karolyi? The
Government is in his hands. He is inclined to the Left.
His Radical tendencies, we admit, are pronounced, but
he could not stab his friends in the back. He is one
of our class, one of our own people. Is not his wife the
daughter of our greatest statesman? Fear not, child;
rest your faith on Count Karolyi."

For his sake she smiled suddenly and gaily jumped
to her feet. Yet the worry was not altogether driven
from Elizabeth's mind by her father's optimism.

"Come, Father, to work."

"To work! Ah!" Imre's lined face softly wreathed
into smiles, and his eyes brightened. Once more he
would pick up his beloved pen, to write in words of
gold of past glories, all unaware of the ghastly present.

Carefully, with the aid of a stick which now never
left his side, he rose to his feet, and made his way to
the window. Throwing it open he gazed at the glorious
vista before him, breathing in the pure air of the
Great Plain.

"What a morning! Come, child, stand by me
and tell me what you see. Does the town still stand
enshrouded by the filthy smoke of industrialism?"

Elizabeth did not reply, and Imre became conscious
that her grip upon his arm was tightening.

"What is the matter, Elizabeth?" he asked, surprised.

"Father, there is a man riding towards us as if he
were pursued by a demon."

"Pshaw! Do not all our horsemen ride thus?
Perhaps he brings us the newspapers."

Elizabeth endeavoured to believe in this supposition,
but receptive to occult influence, a heritage of gipsy
blood, she had a premonition that the rapidly approaching
rider bore news of ill-omen, and her heart beat
quicker with anxiety.

At last, after an apparently interminable period, he
reached the massive iron gates of the castle, and a
moment later the clang of a deep-toned bell resounded
throughout the purlieus of the walls.

A brief interval, hurrying footsteps, and then
Peczkai, from the village, was shown in.

His face was covered with sweat and streaked with
dirt, his clothes were white with dust. Gasping for
breath he turned to the old man.

"Excellency!" He could say no more, and Imre
motioned him to be quiet. His hoarse breathing
became easier.

"Excellency, the Communists are on their way
here!"

"Communists!" Imre gazed at the peasant in
bewilderment. "What mean you? I do not understand."

"The Communists, Excellency, are coming here, by
order of the Soviet."

"Soviet!" The old man choked and a hastily
aroused temper began to display itself. Seeing him
thus Elizabeth spoke to the man.

"You must tell us more, Peczkai. What you have
said to us is a mystery. We have had no news for some
time now, our newspapers have not arrived."

"God help you, then, when you hear the news. The
Karolyi Government has resigned, and the country has
been taken over by a group of Jews who call themselves
the Dictatorship of the Proletariat. Hungary is
Bolshevik, Red. The bourgeoisie and the aristocracy are
fleeing for their lives. Everything is nationalized, the
property of the country, and anyone may take what
they please. It is bloody revolution, Excellency!"

They looked at the man incredulously, hesitating to
believe a word he said. Yet Elizabeth was the first to
realize the truth.

"Oh, Mother in Heaven!" she whispered to herself,
yet the sound pierced the stillness of the room with a
sharp echo.

Imre, after a moment's hesitation, remained
unmoved. "Impossible!" he announced, and his eyes
flashed. "Hungary turned Bolshevik! Impossible!" Proudly
he lifted his head and met the peasant's steady
gaze.

Peczkai groaned. "Excellency, I could not believe
until I saw, with my own eyes. Red guards are everywhere,
pillaging and looting in the name of the Soviet.
Rumours have reached us from Budapest of death, of
mysterious disappearances. Our late Prime Minister
and many others have been thrown into prison.
Excellency, you must believe! The Communists are on the
way here now! Any moment they may arrive. You
must flee; it will be better so."

Hesitation to believe battled with a hopeless
recognition of the truth in Imre's heart. He did not
move or speak; just stood still while the blood receded
from his face and his eyes became shadowed with an
overwhelming horror.

While he wrote of Hungary's greatness, this, this
unspeakable sacrilege was taking place. Hungary Red!
The country of St Stephen, the birthplace of a long
list of valiant warriors—Bolshevik!

"A chair, Elizabeth," he gasped weakly as, unable
to bear the sudden weight of sorrow, he felt his knees
tottering. Quicker than Elizabeth Peczkai was beside
him, holding the older man up in his strong arms.

"Excellency, a short rest only. Then you must go.
See, I will take you, guide you to a safe place."

"Go! Go!" Slowly the bowed shoulders straightened,
the head lifted, and Peczkai saw Imre's eyes
blazing with a kindled fire. "Go! Never! Who are
these Communists that I should leave my home, the
home of my father, and his father before him? Who
are these dogs that I should forsake my castle? Never!
Let them come. I will horsewhip them. Not yet is my
arm too weak to defend myself and my daughter. Go
you, Peczkai, and dare these Bolsheviks to come near."

Despairingly the peasant glanced at Elizabeth, but
vainly. As she stood there she smiled slightly, haughtily,
disdainfully. The spirit of the fighting Magyars
revealed itself in her womanly grace; daughter of a
generation of warriors, she feared neither friend nor
foe. Once again Peczkai groaned.

"Excellency..." He spread out an arm appealingly.

Imre smiled softly. "God bless you, Peczkai." There
was much in his voice which even the uncultured
peasant recognized—gratitude, tenderness, scorn, but
above all, inflexible decision.

Peczkai, with a bowed head, helped Imre to a chair,
and left the room. Bowed, for in the corner of each eye
trickled a tear. When the awakening came... He
felt an infinite pity for them.

It was soon to come. Even as Elizabeth went to the
window to watch the return of Peczkai to the village
she saw in the distance the approaching Communists.
Her lips curled scornfully. There were many of them,
perhaps two dozen, or three—as they came nearer she
realized that even this estimate was too low.

"They come, Father."

She looked round. He sat as if he had not heard.

So she waited at the windows, and the Communists
came nearer till she was able to see their faces, and for
the first time feared. Most of them were villagers, led
by a sprinkling of strangers, but the vanguard was
packed with cruel faces and criminal countenances.
Even many of these men she knew, recognized them
as incorrigibles, vagabonds, ne'er-do-wells, every one
of them an habitué of prison.

Where were the police that these convicts were let
loose? She experienced a thrill of horror: there, side
by side with the misdemeanants, walked the renegade
police, no longer spick-and-span in their uniforms, but
dirty and dissolute, wearing conspicuously their ensign
of shame, the Red cockade.

"Oh, Mother in Heaven!" she breathed.

The awakening at last! "Father, the gates! we must
close them! Then we can defy them, snap our fingers
at them."

Before he had time to reply she hurried from the
room and called the servants as she ran.

In the courtyard Joseph and Eugene the coachmen
were watching the Communists, whispering to each
other in an undertone. Then Elizabeth was before
them.

"Joseph, Eugene, the Bolsheviks are coming to
occupy the castle. Shut to the gates."

Neither man moved, just glanced uneasily at one
another.

"Eugene, do you hear?" The other servants were
joining them, all but the women.

The man looked up and scowled. "Yes, mistress,
I hear," but he made no attempt to move. Fear tugged
at Elizabeth's heart, but the servants did not suspect it,
as before her burning looks their own gaze gave way
and fell.

"Then obey. Shut to the gates and keep that rabble
at a distance."

From the back a voice shouted: "Hold hard, mistress!
Don't you call our friends names." Elizabeth
endeavoured to locate the voice, but the man had hidden
himself behind another servant.

"Friends!" Her voice rang with contempt. "Do
you call those men your friends? Do you, Eugene,
and you, George, or you, Bela?"

Only Eugene had the pluck to answer. "I choose
my own friends, mistress. Times are different now.
We are all alike, you and me and Joseph." He
laughed coarsely. "You are not our mistress now.
You and me are comrades. This castle belongs to the
country, and me and Joseph and all of us are going to
share it."

Elizabeth did not waste time in words. She stepped
forward and flung her hand across his face, and the force
of it first whitened the skin then left a livid weal.

There was a deadly silence. One or two of the more
timid servants shrank back, still amenable to authority,
but Eugene the coachman, his face diffused with evil,
stepped forward. "You——" He raised his arm, but
Joseph caught hold of it.

"Wait, Eugene, wait for the others. In a few
minutes our pretty mistress will soon realize who
governs the country now. Comrade Grocz knows how
to deal with the bourgeoisie. Besides..." he whispered
in the other's ear, and afterward they both grinned
evilly.

For Elizabeth the end of the world might have come.
The servants to revolt, the men who had been in their
employ for years, whom she could have sworn would
be faithful to death! She looked at the gates. Too late
now to close them, for the villagers were on the threshold.
She felt a sob rising in her throat at the treachery
of the men, but repressed it, and running to the gates
stood in the entrance, her arms spread.

Obedient to impulses not yet entirely driven from
them the villagers stopped. Only the Communists
from Budapest had the courage to advance, and headed
by Comrade Grocz they moved forward till they stood
in front of her.

"Well, my pretty miss, what do you want?" Grocz
laughed and spat on the ground.

Elizabeth looked at him, a fierce anger blazing from
her eyes. "Dog!" she cried. "Get back to your
kennel."

Some one laughed, otherwise the silence was intense.
Elizabeth appreciated the moment, took advantage of
it. Coolly ignoring the strangers, she spoke to the
villagers, among whom she had been brought up since
childhood, and her young voice clearly rang through
the air, reaching every man in the crowd.

"Men, what do you want? Why come you here
to-day? Are you to be turned into a crowd of
barbarians at the command of a handful of Jews from
Budapest? Are you so forgetful of your own independence
that you must blindly follow on the heels of a few
mischief-makers who seek only their own advancement?
Have you forgotten the four long years of war?
Did you sacrifice yourselves for this?"

Perhaps her words might have had effect, but
unconsciously she touched upon the wrong topic.

"Bah! Who started the War, who plunged us
peasants into the hell of battle? You magnates, you
landowners and blood-suckers. You, who fatten on
the work we do for you at starvation pay; you, all
of you, started the War to grind us down more than
ever!"

The words were greeted by a chorus of affirmative
growls. The tide had turned and none knew it better
than Comrade Grocz.

"Out of the way! We cannot stand arguing here
all day long. Three cheers for the Dictatorship of the
Proletariat! Long live Bela Kun! Come along,
comrades, worthy Bela Kun has given us Castle Gisella.
Shall we let a little chit of a girl stand in our way?"

There was a restless movement. "No, no, move on!"

Out of the corner of her eyes Elizabeth saw Imre
approaching, and it seemed to her that he leaned more
heavily than usual upon his supporting stick. At all
costs she felt she must keep the mob away.

"Back, back!" She faced them desperately, and her
dauntless bearing impressed the villagers, so that once
again they stopped. It did more: wavering servants,
already ashamed of their deviation from loyalty, lined
up behind her, heedless of Eugene's cajoleries and
threats.

Unseen, unnoticed, Lenin's shadow fell across the
tableau; the ghastly influence of Bela Kun, the example
of Tibor Szamuelly, reached even here. Sneering
slightly, an ex-policeman, now a Red guard, sighted his
rifle and pulled the trigger.

The shot went wide, but only just, so that its flight
whistled past Elizabeth's ear. The blood drained from
her face, but she did not move, and at this first sign
of open hostility her courage deepened. Nor was it
without effect on the invaders. Like a bone thrown
into the midst of a pack of starving wolves the shot
released a flood of pent-up passion. Gone in a moment
were memories of the past; tradition, gratitude, and
common sense, all were forgotten.

Jostling, pushing, and shouting out insulting epithets,
the mob advanced, led by Comrade Grocz. Some
one, she never knew whom, caught her roughly by the
shoulders, and she was flung aside like a sack of coal,
her dress tearing down to the waist and revealing her
underclothing. Even then she might have stood up
to them, but a pair of arms weakly encircled her and
held her back.

"My daughter, my child! Elizabeth, you are not
hurt? The beasts, the cowards! Would that I were
twenty, even ten years younger and I would flog them
out of the castle on their knees. May I be cursed that
my limbs fail me, may I——"

She put her lingers to his lips, and mutely they stood
still, helplessly watching the Communists brush past, and
the castle which had withstood Mongols, Frenchmen,
Germans, Turks, and Austrians fall to the disciples
of Karl Marx and Lenin.

* * * * * *

An hour later they ventured in again. In the meantime
they had hidden in an outhouse, where one of the
female servants found them. To Elizabeth she brought
another dress, though, when she looked, Elizabeth did
not recognize it.

"This is one of your own?" she said.

"Yes, mistress."

"But why did you not bring me one of mine?"

Looking everywhere but at her mistress the maid
stammered an answer: "I—I was afraid of the—the
men, mistress."

Decently dressed again Elizabeth decided that her
father and she ought to return to the castle, and
leaving the shelter of the outhouse they crossed the
courtyard. No one was to be seen.

They entered, only to stop, aghast. No wonder the
maid had not looked Elizabeth in the eye. On every
hand were damage and destruction, from every corner
ascended a stench of vile, unwashed humanity. The
Communists were everywhere, lounging about, smoking
Imre's cigars and cigarettes, spitting on the floor,
exchanging obscene jokes.

Elizabeth closed her eyes to shut out the ghastly
scene, and Imre sobbed aloud. His grand old castle,
full of heirlooms, priceless antiques, and less valuable
pieces of furniture which had become dear to the heart
from long familiarity, ruined and desecrated by the
filthy hands of the vandals!

Mechanically they moved on. Everywhere it was
the same. Destruction abounded. Tiny objets d'art
thrown into the grate, exquisite tapestry pulled off the
walls to clean the boots of the proletariat.

In due course Comrade Grocz saw them.

"Hullo, comrade! hullo, sister!" He greeted them
familiarly. "Jolly little place you have had here in the
past. So nice in fact that it is a pity you have not had
an opportunity of sharing it before. By order of the
Dictatorship of the Proletariat your jewellery is
confiscated, together with all other objects of value. Your
castle will be shared by good Communists. I have
allotted you two rooms to yourselves, out of my
generosity. The rest will be common rooms. Pass on,
comrades; remember the Dictatorship of the Proletariat
has come to stay." He moved, laughing harshly.

Dismayed, bewildered, Elizabeth and her father
falteringly stumbled along the passage. Communists
passed, bearing in their arms bundles of clothes, pieces
of furniture, cushions, pillows, but not one appeared to
notice them. Were they not all equal now?

At last they found their rooms, traced them in that
they were unoccupied, and that on the floor were tossed
their clothes, a paltry few, transferred from their proper
wardrobes by order of Comrade Grocz. Just two rooms;
a bedroom each to the father and daughter who, but a
few hours ago, had owned the whole castle.

"I—I will go in—for a rest." Keeping his face
sedulously hidden from his daughter, Imre mumbled
the words beneath his breath and tottered into his new
bedroom. She followed and caught hold of his arm in
support, but he waved her away. "Go, my child—I
want—want to be alone." There was a break in his
voice, and hearing it Elizabeth choked, conscious that
there was a suspicious lump in her own throat.

Imre sank into a chair, his head bowed. Elizabeth
tiptoed from the room and quietly shut the door.

Not far away was a bathroom. She would have
washed, but she found the bolt wrenched off. Under
the Bolshevik régime there was to be no privacy. It
was part of their policy, a Communistic theory, that
the sexes be thrown promiscuously together. Even
modesty was to be State-owned.

Hardly conscious of her actions she returned to her
room. It seemed hot, stuffy, and smelly from contact
with the Communists. She crossed to the window and
flung it open, breathing in the spring air with deep
gasps. That at least was pure, perhaps the only pure
thing left in unhappy Hungary.

Somehow it surprised Elizabeth that Nature still
smiled. It did not seem possible for anyone or
anything to smile now. Yet it was so. The gentle breeze
whispered its lullaby, the sun shone gaily, and the
fleecy clouds, leisurely wafting along, served to
emphasize the sparkling sapphire hue of the sky.

Below her, a sheer drop of fifty feet, the broad
Danube flowed, undisturbed in its course by human
outrage. Elizabeth was fascinated by its tranquillity,
its absolute disinterestedness. It did not dash more
fiercely against its rock-bound walls, nor sing its song
the louder. What meant war or revolution, massacre
or murder to it? Inexorably its waters flowed onward,
unheeding mankind's plight. Cruel Nature, heartless
Danube!

In the meantime Imre, in the next room, suffered.
Though of late years he had remained away from the
wide world, given up the last years of his life to scholarly
pursuits, there had been a time when he was young,
when he had sipped of its pleasures, tasted lightly of its
vices. As then he had known the world, and mankind
in particular, so now he trembled for his daughter.

What would happen when the wine cellar was
opened, when the mellow Tokay stirred up the passions
of the men? God! he dared not think. Yet he knew
he must think, and plan escape for Elizabeth. What
were his castle, his lands, his money, compared to her?

He must be polite to the Communists; escape
would be easier if they did not suspect him. He must
think—carefully. He gazed around, and the scene—the
clothes on the floor, the missing ornaments, the
disturbed bed—angered him, and he felt his temper
bubbling over, blinding his clarity of vision.

There was only one place to which he could go—his
beloved study. So he made his way there, keeping
guard on himself, and ignoring the jeering Communists.
Once there he knew its atmosphere would assist him to
think more coherently, to plan a way to get the better
of the scum.

The study door was closed and no one about. With
a quick movement, which twisted his lips with pain,
he entered, and shut the door behind him, breathing
with relief.

So the tableau was set, Imre Kiss by the door, leaning
on his stick, and Comrade Grocz by a massive desk,
a bundle of manuscript in one hand, a lighted match
in the other.

And Imre—for the moment he did not fully comprehend
the significance of what he saw. His brain
was blank, chilled by the disappointment at finding
even here the sacrilegious presence of Communists.

Then the devouring flame of realization fired his
blood. His papers, his sacred manuscripts, the work
of years about to be destroyed! Another few seconds
and the match would have been applied. There was
no fear within him at that moment, only a consuming
rage, a murderous hate, and a flaming, unquenchable
spirit which oiled his limbs, swept aside for the moment
the ravages of time. With a bellow of rage he raised
aloft his heavy walking-stick, and, rushing forward,
crashed it down upon the skull of the Communist.

Without a sound Comrade Grocz dropped to the ground.

By the time he came round again the papers were
hidden where no Communist's hands would ever find
them, but the black soul of Grocz shrieked for revenge.

It was nothing to him that, the precious manuscripts
saved, gentle-hearted Imre was bathing the
Communist's head. He only saw the man who had stunned
him. He rose quickly to his feet, leaving Imre on his
knees. Now was his chance. He swung his foot forward.
His heavy-soled boot crashed into the old man's
face, and Imre, racked with pain, gently slid backward
to the floor with a groan.

# CHAPTER V

Budapest, and Comrade Grocz pleading to
Bela Kun for satisfaction.

Bela Kun was sympathetic. "Of course, comrade.
An insult to you is an insult to the Soviet. Go
back to Castle Gisella and hang the old man. Do
just as you like, but do not let him escape." His eyes
flashed. "Remember, Grocz, I shall hold you
responsible. The bourgeoisie must be exterminated."

Grocz smiled savagely. "Thank you, comrade. Do
not fear. I know of a very good method of hanging.
It does it gradually. But, comrade, there is another
matter. There is a daughter."

"Ha! A daughter. Is she young?"

"Deliciously so."

"And pretty?"

"None more so."

Bela Kun grinned all over his misshapen face.
"Comrade Grocz, if I were you——"

Grocz nodded his head. "And afterwards?"

Bela Kun frowned. "Let her join her pig of a
father in Hell."

Grocz was confident. "Leave that to me, comrade."

The train back was not due to leave for another hour,
so Grocz sat at the station buffet, surrounded by friends,
whiling away the time. It was good that his old chum
Brody came along. There was a tale to tell, so he told
it, and in its recital it lost nothing of the drama. As
the cluster around him grew larger so his voice boomed
louder. It was pleasing to be thus a centre of interest.

All the same he kept his eye on the clock. There
was work to be done. He wanted to see the old man
at the end of a rope, his legs kicking—better still there
was Elizabeth....

At last the train puffed out, crowded to double its
capacity, as were all trains in those days, but Grocz
saw to it that he had plenty of room. There was one
window seat occupied by an old woman. He thrust
her out of it, and then took her place, stretching his
long legs across to the opposite side. Having settled
himself comfortably he pulled from his pocket a large
cigar which had once belonged to Imre Kiss, and read
The People's Voice.

Little did he know that in the same train travelled
Nemesis, that among the group of Reds to whom he
had boasted of what was to happen later that night
were Arnold Terhune and his mysterious leader, the
White Knight.

They did not speak to one another, the two Englishmen;
each had thoughts of his own. But then it was
not safe to talk of anything but trivialities: for instance,
the man in the opposite corner, with his hawk nose,
his cunning eyes, and close-cropped head might have
been a detective.

Dressed in the filthiest of rags, gathered from a
garbage heap, wearing the inevitable Red cockade, behaving
like a bully and a brute, Terhune was not conspicuous
in any respect; but the same could not be said of the
White Knight. Towering above many of the tallest
men, Geoffrey Templeton, alias Istvan Wenzel, could
not disguise his height, his rugged strength, nor even
his hideous ugliness, from which even the bestial Reds
glanced away in disgust.

With his livid wounds Wenzel was a veritable ogre,
an inhuman monstrosity, terrifying in appearance.
There were times when Terhune turned away his own
eyes, retching at the sight of his leader.

The train rumbled on through the environs of the
city until it reached the country, and Terhune, comparing
its impressive simplicity with its tillers and its
reapers who composed the occupants of the carriage,
could not arrive at any reconciliation of the situation.
Crowded slum-dwellers, living in filth and grime,
rubbing shoulders with the rich, imbibing the seeds
of dissatisfaction, he could well understand rising in
revolution; but where there was beauty and natural
art, fresh air and immense open spaces—there, he
felt, the spread of revolution could only be a disease,
a fostered and malignant growth.

From reason for the creation of internal strife,
Arnold's thoughts passed on to its victims. As always,
his memory reverted to the night when he had first
seen Cecile, sitting in the flickering candlelight by her
mother's bedside. He realized that he wanted to see
her again and again after that. Perhaps, one day,
when the Bolshevik Government was overturned, when
the country was released from the grip of the octopus—but
that time could only be in the distant future. He
sighed, and, out of the corner of his eye, glanced at the
White Knight.

As usual, Wenzel's face was set in hard lines, his
eyes staring ahead, unblinkingly emotionless. Of what
was he thinking? And Arnold, aware of the tragedy
in the life of Geoffrey Templeton, could well guess.

The train steamed into a local station and the
carriage cleared, so that only Arnold and Wenzel were
left, even the cunning-eyed man taking his departure.
Arnold, somewhat suspicious of him, watched his
back disappearing into the exit of the station, and
presently noticed him walking along an adjacent street.
He breathed a sigh of relief, glad to know that to all
intents and purposes he had been mistaken in his
assumption of the character of the man.

After a wearisome wait the train continued its
journey, and looking toward the east Arnold saw that
the sky was beginning to deepen into a sombre grey.
Farther along the train some one was playing the
Internationale on a violin, and the strains echoed along
the corridor.

Wenzel did not move, but continued to sit mutely
awaiting the journey's end, passively oblivious of
anything other than what was passing through his mind.
Arnold chafed at the silence, for now that, to a certain
extent, the necessity for caution was past, his leader's
attitude was uncanny.

"Geoffrey, old man, we are nearly there."

"Well?" Not a muscle of his face moved. Arnold
moved across the carriage so that he sat opposite,
hoping that he might read the expression of Wenzel's
eyes, but he was disappointed. Nothing was to be
glimpsed but an impenetrable blank, an expressionless
stare.

Arnold wanted to talk. "You have made your
plans?" he asked.

Wenzel nodded. "As far as possible."

"And those?"

"We will follow Grocz at a distance. Soon after he
has entered the castle we will arrive with a message
from Bela Kun, probably something to do with the
hanging of this old man. Once inside our wits must
do the rest."

There was a silence, broken eventually by Arnold.

"Geoffrey, why did you not warn me it was you who
were the guard that night when we rescued the Count
Bakocz? When I felt my pistol butt sink into your
flesh I could have gasped with horror. God! It must
have hurt you."

"Not as much as it did you. You scarcely bruised
the skin."

"Even so, was there anyone else near by, save the
Count, that we had to act so realistically?"

"No."

"Then—why?" he asked desperately.

"Two men only have seen the White Knight,
Arnold. You are one, Apor is the other. My very
plans centre on the secrecy which surrounds me. I
fear even the gratitude of those I rescue. I trust no
one—but you."

"And I—I am a poor help to you, Geoffrey. Yours
is the brain, I am but the muscle. Still, I am more
than satisfied. All my life I shall thank God that I
came across you that—that day. If I never prove of
further use to the world I shall rest satisfied that I
have, even in such a small way, helped to alleviate the
lot of an unhappy nation, to counteract the ghastly
ravages of the handful of murderers who govern the
country.

"When we were at school together, you and I,
Geoffrey, when we used to outvie one another to see
who could be the most daring, I am sure neither of us
ever dreamed that ten years later we should be here,
in Hungary, doing what we are. You were always the
leader, though, even in those days. I could never equal
you, for strength, for daring—for anything."

"Yet, Arnold, if I was the leader, I had more than
an able lieutenant, even as I have to-day. Schooldays!
They were long ago! They were happy days, those.
I have changed. You haven't, Arnold. You are older,
a trifle more solemn, but you have still that rugged,
unbendable spirit of loyalty. The Spanish Inquisition
would not have persuaded you to betray a friend,
Arnold."

Arnold flushed. He was not used to praise of this
kind from his leader, and, embarrassed, he changed the
subject.

"Once inside the castle, Geoffrey—are you not afraid
of being trapped?"

"Trapped!" Scornfully Wenzel derided the
suggestion. "Am I so brainless that I cannot hope to
blind the eyes of the unintelligent spawn? Are my
arms too weak to throttle a few of the accursed swine?
No, Arnold, I have no fear on that score."

"What of a rifle bullet? Neither brains nor brawn,
Geoffrey, can successfully withstand the flight of a
cartridge."

For the first time that day Wenzel smiled. "Then
shall I be glad, Arnold. Don't you realize that death is
all I seek? What is life to me now? Hell! Hell, from
morning till night. My thoughts torture me when
I—I think of—Zita, poor little Zita dying from the
shock of seeing her father bayoneted to death by—by
the muckrake of the earth, the spewed-out refuse of the
lowest type of humanity. God! All I wish is to kill,
kill; murder the brutes as they murdered Zita."

So redly did his scars throb with the intensity of his
passion that it seemed to Arnold they might burst with
the pressure. Wenzel may have guessed his thoughts,
for he laughed harshly, hideously.

"God was still not satisfied with all He had done
to me. No, there was more to come, Arnold, more to
come. First He took away my Zita, killed my heart,
chilled my soul, and then, when I wanted to die that I
might join her, when I murdered six bloody Bolsheviks
and gave myself up that I might perish by their bullets,
what queer prank did He play then?

"Let me be put up against the wall, let the Communists
fire, let every bullet strike me here and
here—here—here—so that I fell, and was left for dead, and
yet—what then? Let me live, live that I might gaze
in the mirror at myself and hate my own face as I hate
the Bolsheviks, detest myself as I would the Devil.

"Do you think I am blind that I cannot see the
hellish scars which score my face and head from
side to side? God! I wish I couldn't. It hurts so,
it hurts so."

No longer were his eyes expressionless. Once Arnold
had looked into the eyes of a dog, his body flattened
beneath the tyres of a motor-car, and what he saw then
remained with him as a memory for years. Once again
he saw the pictured story of unbearable pain, and this
time it was in Geoffrey's eyes.

If his body were on earth, his soul was in the deepest
depths of Hell. If he lived it was only to look for
death, the death which was preferable to life.

The train rumbled on, and Comrade Grocz
impatiently waited for the journey to finish.

* * * * * *

By the time Grocz reached the castle it was practically
pitch dark. Eugene, the ex-coachman, met him
at the gate.

"Back again, comrade?"

"Yes, back again, my friend, with good news."

Eugene grunted. "He is to die?"

"Ay, my friend, at the end of a rope, over the
battlements. Then when it is all over we will cut the
rope and he will fall 'plop' into the Danube. What
more could you want?"

"Nothing more. Your scheme is excellent, yet I
would give you advice, comrade." He paused.

"Well, say on," urged Grocz impatiently.

"Firstly I would, were I you, dispatch the old man
to-night."

Grocz grinned in the darkness. "Worry not,
comrade. I have already decided to do that—and other
things. Only why do you say this?"

"Because I have heard rumours. There are certain
pig-headed villagers who regard our friend as they
would a god. There are hints of a rescue."

"What!" Grocz's face blackened. "Who would
dare to dispute the judgment of the Dictatorship of the
Proletariat? Show me them, give me their names, and
I warrant good Comrade Tibor Szamuelly will soon
persuade them to change their minds."

"Quietly, comrade, quietly! I know no names.
I have merely overheard a conversation, and I
say—to-night shut fast the gates, post sentries, and give
orders that no one may pass in, not even Bela Kun
himself."

Grocz thought for a moment or two, and then
smacked his knee. "Good advice, my friend! We will
see that this is done."

Inside the castle he rapidly issued orders and the
gates rolled to; then Red guards, with loaded rifles,
and a bottle of wine by their side, were set to keep
watch.

Having done this Grocz made his way into the depths
of the castle. Here were cells, built by Hungary's
defenders, for Hungary's foes. Here in one of them
lay a Hungarian defender, placed there by a Hungarian
foe.

To Imre Kiss came Grocz, gloatingly. "Well, old
man, you can say your prayers. At midnight sharp,
to-night, you die."

"And my daughter?" Imre's voice quavered. All
day long, since he had been dragged from above and
thrown inside, he had neither heard nor seen Elizabeth,
and, sick with anxiety, he had lain on a rough, mouldy
heap of straw, hour after hour, praying to his Creator
for his daughter's safety, no thought of self, of his own
fate, content to die if his daughter be saved, unharmed.
In the light of the lantern Imre saw the Communist
nod his head. "Don't you worry! She is quite all
right."

"You—you are not going to kill her? For God's
sake let her remain safe and sound! Kill me, but leave
her."

"Don't you worry, we will do that all right," replied
Grocz brutally.

"You swear you will look after her?"

"Yes, I will look after her."

"God bless you," Imre murmured. Then as he left
the cell Grocz laughed slightly. Once again Imre saw
his face clearly betrayed in the light, and at that moment
realized the fate in store for Elizabeth.

The horror was too much for his heart. With a tiny
sigh he slipped back, unconscious, to the straw-strewn
floor.

In the meantime Elizabeth knew naught of what had
happened to her father. So far as she was aware, the
only occurrence was that some time after she shut herself
in her room the key clicked in its socket. When she
tried the door it was locked. From this she assumed that
her father had been treated in a like manner.

At midday one of her own servants, with downcast
eyes, brought her up a simple meal, set out upon a tray,
and putting it down upon a small table quickly made
her exit without a word.

The afternoon dragged on interminably till it merged
into the evening. Once again a meal was brought to
her. This time she questioned the maid.

"Why do you not speak to me, Lenke?"

The woman glanced fearfully at her. "Mistress, I
have been forbidden to speak to you or to answer any
questions."

Elizabeth gazed with scorn at the trembling servant.
"Are you afraid of the—the—animals?"

Lenke whimpered slightly. "Mistress, they—they
threaten to—to kill me unless I obey their commands."

Elizabeth laughed. "And you believe they would
dare to do so?"

"Mistress, they would dare. They—they are
beasts!" Her voice sank to a whisper. "Mistress,
I heard a cry just before noon like a man who—who
had been mortally injured. The voice was like that of
Ernest, the butler. Mistress, mistress—" Lenke fell on
her knees, and catching hold of Elizabeth's dress buried
her face in its folds, and sobbed—"Ernest—has—disappeared.
In his room were only—bloodstains."

"Oh, Lenke!" Elizabeth whispered to herself, and
her face went suddenly white. It did not seem possible;
Ernest to disappear so! She tried to convince herself
that the maid was lying, but if Elizabeth needed any
confirmation of the truth it was in Lenke's attitude.

If that had happened, without any knowledge of it
having reached her until now, what other awful deeds
might already have taken place? Her father...

Frantically she bent down and clutched Lenke by the
shoulders till the servant moaned with pain.
"Lenke—Lenke—my father—your master, is he safe?"

Lenke gazed with horror at her mistress, then she
broke free from Elizabeth's grasp, ran across the room
to the door, and disappeared outside. The key turned.
Elizabeth was once again alone.

The terror depicted in the maid's face—her significant
dismay at the question—her orders to answer
no questions—seized with consternation Elizabeth sank
into a chair as she felt her limbs trembling.

Question after question raced through her mind,
queries which could not be answered. As though an
icy blast were blowing through her room she shivered
with a cold fear. The unconquerable spirit which did
not wilt beneath the horror of the day was stricken
down at the thought of her father. Where was he now,
what had happened to him? Feverishly she crossed to
the door and hammered upon it till her hands turned red.
For a long time there was no movement, but presently
she heard a shuffle along the passage outside.

The door opened, a Red guard stood there.

"My father, where is he? Quick, for the love of
mercy tell me!" she pleaded.

The Red guard scowled at her. "Is that all you want?"

"Yes, yes. Tell me, please, I cannot bear the anxiety."

He did not reply. Instead he seized his rifle, and
placing the butt to her waist pushed with all his might.
Elizabeth went hurtling across the room, to fall with a
crash against the wall.

The man laughed brutally and slammed the door.

More hours passed. Elizabeth never knew how
many, but it seemed a score or so. The room was in
pitch darkness. Racked with physical pain from her
bruised body, mentally a prey to an overwhelming fear,
she sat in a chair, sick and dazed. So Grocz found her
when, bearing aloft a flickering candle, which he set
down, he visited her to make her acquainted with the
orders of the Dictator of the Proletariat.

"I have brought you a light."

She looked up at him dully. "My father—won't
you tell me, please? Where is he? What are you going
to do with him?"

Grocz frowned. "Swing the old man to perdition."

The shock paralysed her muscles. She could only
look up at him dumbly, trying to pull together her
scattered thoughts, to make some coherency of his
words.

"So shall suffer all enemies of the Commune," he
boasted. "So should you too, my pretty lady, and
yet—" he moistened his thick, sensuous lips—"it
would be a pity if the world lost such a charming young
person. My efforts with the Soviet have served you,
sweet Elizabeth, and they have put your life in my
hands.

"Fear not, you shall not die, though your father
hangs at midnight. I shall myself see that the work is
faithfully carried out." He paused, and unconsciously
his fingers touched his head, still bruised and tender
where Imre's stick had caught it. "Afterwards—" he
bowed—"afterwards, pretty lady, you may expect me
here. Your life is mine, I shall make good use of it.
See, I will leave you this candle till then. It shall
not be said that I was unkind to the little lady whose
life I have saved." With which he withdrew from the
room, his eyes flickering as he shut the door.

# CHAPTER VI

"Ho, there!"

Two men stood outside the castle gates,
cursing beneath their breath.

On the other side a Communist laughed noisily.

"Hullo, comrades! What want you at this time of
night?"

"We come with a message to Comrade Grocz from
Bela Kun."

The Communist laughed again, and turned to his
companion, whose besotted face grinned vacantly. "A
good joke, eh, my friend! A message from Bela Kun.
What was it good Comrade Grocz told us? 'Open
not the gates even to Bela Kun himself.' Ha, ha!
You will have to come again to-morrow, friends." He
swayed unsteadily on his feet.

"Open! Our message is important." Wenzel's voice
hardened. "Unless Bela Kun's orders are obeyed your
necks may stretch."

Imre's potent wine had done its work well. "Who
cares for Bela Kun? To-morrow I may be the Dictator,
or at least a commissary. Or else my friend here.
Good night, brothers. Come again to-morrow." Arm
in arm the two guards turned their backs and reeled
into the interior of the castle, carrying with them the
flask of wine.

The darkness, unrelieved by even the light of moon
or stars, hid everything within a cloak of invisibility,
so that even the castle itself was but a blur, revealed
only by flickering gleams of illumination from a few
windows. That, and one other thing. On top of the
castle itself three men, working by the light of four
or five lanterns, moved busily about to the accompaniment
of hammering. They were erecting the gallows
from which Imre was shortly to hang.

Wenzel cursed at the sudden, unforeseen obstacle
in the fulfilment of his plans. "Hell! May the Devil
seize him! Do you think Comrade Grocz suspected
he was being followed, Arnold?"

"No, I think not," Terhune replied slowly.

"Then why the order not to let in even Bela Kun
himself?"

Arnold shrugged his shoulders. "A sense of
authority in the first place, but there is a worse aspect.
After the hanging Grocz wishes no interruption in his
filthy schemes."

Wenzel's muscles tightened. "God grant me the
chance to grip his soft throat between my thumbs,"
he muttered between his teeth. "But now, is there
another way in? Let us explore, Arnold."

Stumbling along the uneven rocky surface, Wenzel
and his lieutenant proceeded to examine, as far as
possible, the geography of the castle. Keeping well
beneath the shadow of the outer battlements they knew
they were safe from the observation of those within the
castle. It would be only Communists or sentries actually
above them on the battlements who would be likely
to hear or see them—an unlikely contingency.

Presently they came to one corner; here the wall
turned off at right angles to make a second side of the
square in which the castle was built. Continuing, the
two Englishmen turned also. For perhaps two hundred
feet they crept along without discovering any sign of
another door.

Suddenly Wenzel stopped, restraining Arnold by a
touch on his arm, his keen ears having become aware
of a strange, sighing echo, a noise hollowly flung at
them from out of the darkness. He felt the influence
of a cold wind, a sensation of space.

He looked ahead, then beneath him, and gasped
slightly. Deep down below, an inestimable distance,
were lights eerily waving to and fro. Another few
steps and they might have hurtled into the depths
before them.

The lights puzzled him; he could make nothing
definite of their fantastic action. What, too, was the
soughing below? All at once the solution occurred to
him. The lights below were reflections of others above.

"The Danube!" he breathed softly.

"Good Lord!" Arnold was horrified. "Another
few steps and——"

"Perhaps."

That was all! Coolly indifferent to the possibility
of having just escaped death, the White Knight passed
again to the front of Arnold and they retraced their
steps. They reached the gates again, and with the
utmost caution passed by in front of them, then explored
the other side of the castle.

There it was just the same. After the turn, a couple
of hundred yards' walk, and then the blowing wind,
the sensation of space. The castle needed battlements
on three sides only, for the fourth was impregnable;
Nature in the shape of a precipitous drop to the river
provided protection enough.

"Well?"

Arnold detected a grim note of interrogation in
Wenzel's voice. "There seems no hope of admittance,"
he answered.

"There has got to be. Do you think I am content
to let the old man hang, and his daughter be violated?"

"What can you do? If Grocz meant all he said at
the station buffet, Imre Kiss will hang at twelve."

"He was deadly serious, Arnold, else why the
gallows?" He pointed to the castle roof where the
men had been working, to notice that there was now
no sign of them. The work was finished, the deadly
instrument ready for its victim.

"The swine!" In the intensity of his emotion
Arnold hissed the word between set teeth. "And
yet——?"

There was no need for him to complete his unspoken
question. The White Knight answered it after
a slight pause. "Arnold, there is one way. I am going
to scale the battlements."

"Geoffrey—you can't! They must be twenty feet
high or more and probably smooth as glass."

"Yet I am going to try," and there was a finality in
his voice which permitted of no opposition. Arnold,
knowing that his leader would make the attempt, failed
to see any prospect of success. If there had been but
a modicum of light, a single gleam of illumination
by which to see footholds, find weaknesses in the solid
structure of which advantage might be taken, then,
however hazardous and foolhardy the task might have
seemed, there was at least a possibility of triumph.
But in the present circumstances...

The White Knight laughed slightly, and the next
moment he was by the wall, his hands and feet feeling
for the slightest crack, the smallest protuberance which
would afford him a hold.

The moss was thick in parts, and deceiving. It felt
firm and secure, yet it needed little pressure to tear its
roots from the stonework, and was a hindrance rather
than a help, for pieces fell into Wenzel's face, and into
his eyes.

At last his groping fingers found a tiny indent where
the mortar had crumbled away. Not deep enough for
him to insert his finger-tips even as far as the first
joint, yet he deemed it sufficient. He took a firm grip,
and by sheer force lifted his tall body a few inches and
pressed his toes against the wall, until one foot felt
resistance beneath it. So he advanced the first step upward.

Carefully he released his left hand. His weight
pulled at the fingers of the other, but he tightened
his muscles, and somehow he clung, supported by the
toes of one foot.

With his free hand he felt for another hold, and
presently found one, scarcely better than the first, but
good enough. He took hold, swung away, and, as
before, pulled himself up till he could use both hands.

He moved upward, inch by inch, somehow finding
fingerholds where the fierce weather had, through the
centuries, crumbled the stone; but mainly it was sheer
strength, fortified by force of will, which helped him
up, for he held on tenaciously, even when his position
was precarious, when the slightest weakening would
have sent him slipping down.

Up and up! Presently, for all he knew, he might
have been nearly to the top, or yet not above the height
of Terhune's head, for soon he lost count of time and
sense of distance.

Presently it became an effort to think; his brain
reiterated monotonously: "Hold on, hold on." He
must hold on; that much he knew; so he held on,
step by step, inch by inch.

Something wet trickled on his face; he thought it
was moisture from the squeezed moss, till it rolled
upon his dry lips, and tasted warm and salty to his
tongue. He knew then that it was blood from his
fingers where the skin was wearing through.

Up and up! His muscles were tearing and aching
from the strain; his body suffered as if it had been
tortured on the rack. He felt that it was becoming
increasingly difficult to maintain the superhuman effort,
but he was aware that he must continue, knowing if
he fell it would mean death, and though he would
have welcomed oblivion, there was work to be done
first.

More important than the rescue of Imre Kiss was
that of his daughter Elizabeth. A man can die but
once, and hanging is short and sweet, but the girl—she
would die a thousand deaths if once the foul beast
Grocz laid hands upon her, and yet remain alive, and
live thereafter suffering the tortures of the damned.

Up and up! Suddenly he laughed aloud. God! he
had nearly gone that time. The blood streamed
down his arm, spurted over his clothes, even dripped
on Terhune who waited below, pressed close against
the wall with outstretched arms just in case he could
catch the White Knight should he fall. Terhune heard
the laughter and, never dreaming that it was an escape
of pent-up relief from his leader, trembled for the
White Knight, believing he had heard a Communist
somewhere on the battlements.

Wenzel wondered at himself. Why had he laughed?
For what in Hades was he climbing the wall? Why
not drop and go to sleep? Sleep, that was it! He was
tired; he could move no more.

Perhaps for thirty seconds he remained still, while
his brain, dazed by the tremendous strain his body
had suffered, whirled and twisted in mental
gymnastics. For a brief period he could not collect his
thoughts; then out of the fog of uncertainty
something in his heart repeated once again: "Up—up."

Up and up! Somehow he held on, even when it
seemed to him that to continue was impossible, until
at last the top. One final clamber and he was on the
broad, level wall. Weakly he slithered down and lay
stretched out, while he gasped loudly for breath.

The strain over, his brain renewed its functions, and
he was able to think intelligently, so he allowed
himself five minutes for recovery. This period of time he
estimated, then he rose to his feet, ready for the next
part of the programme.

Somewhere or other he believed there were bound
to be stairs leading down into the castle courtyard.
These he knew he could only find by feeling for them,
so he set out along the wall, step by step.

He was not long in his search. Having traversed
some fifteen yards or so he came to a small tower.
Suspecting that the stairs might be inside he entered,
to find his surmise correct. The tower was a shield
for a circular staircase leading from below.

Treading with the utmost caution he ventured down,
and at length arrived at the courtyard. Even there
not a single man was to be seen, though he could hear
them, for inside the castle there was a noise of music
and singing. Deprive the Hungarian of his music, and
part of his life is erased.

The tune was dimly reminiscent; and a grim
smile creased the features of the White Knight. Well
might it strike a chord in his memory! It was the
Marseillaise! Altered and transposed almost out of
recognition so that even Rouget de Lisle might not
have identified it, the song howled by the drunken
villagers was basically the same as that which had
fired the blood of other revolutionaries in other times,
in another land.

The tune was Hungarianized, the words modernized
by a local poet; but the spirit of the singers was
not altered one iota. So had the people of France sung
their hymn, drinking from their bottles under the
frowning fortifications of Paris, and their thoughts had
been the same, their aspirations similar. The uprooting
of law and order, the disruption of the country—what
mattered so long as they had government for the
mass by the mass? That the rule of the mass proved
even more despotic, still more unjust than before, was
a matter of no account at all.

The large iron-bound doors of the castle proper
stood wide open, and for this Wenzel breathed a sigh
of thankfulness. His entrance should be comparatively
easy.

From the shadows outside he looked into the large
hall. Not yet had the invaders managed to destroy
all semblance of its beauty. The stately walls still rose
grandly up to the raftered roof; its upper panels,
beyond the reach of the peasants, were still adorned with
the trophies of centuries of war and sport.

It was the floor which had suffered most; its
polish was irretrievably ruined, damaged by the
contact of heavy boots, and the mess and filth which
littered it. There, too, sprawled the filthy bodies of
the Communists, drunkenly sleeping off the effects of
a day's carousal.

Those who were still able to remain awake were
piled around a platform which occupied part of the
left side of the hall. Here were the musicians, babbling
in their cups, and yet still musical.

As Wenzel glanced around he noticed one significant
fact. There was not one person looking in the direction
of the door. Now was his chance to gain admittance
inside without becoming a centre of interest! Once
within he believed he might not have to fear discovery;
for one thing, they all looked too drunk to notice the
presence of a stranger, and, again, even if he were
seen, he trusted that the villagers would take him to
be one of the Budapest contingent, while the
Communists from the city might assume him to belong to
the peasants' party.

Pulling his cap well over his head, swathing his chin
and neck in his dirty scarf, and slouching his shoulders
to lessen his height, Wenzel unsteadily crossed the
threshold into the midst of the unpleasant company,
and sank into a chair while he looked around. Most
of them had not yet troubled to take off hats or coats,
so he did not remove his either.

In front of him he saw a magnificent staircase, wide
enough to take twelve men abreast, which led to the
upper floor. By the platform was another door through
which men staggered in, now and again, food or drink
in their hands, so Wenzel assumed that it led to the
kitchens.

Otherwise, barring the front entrance, through which
he himself had entered, he could see no other door. He
frowned slightly. He felt that there should be another
exit—one by which the servants could make their way
into other parts of the house without using either the
kitchen or the main staircase.

If there was one he did not see it, so he made up
his mind to use the stairs, for even as he looked, a
Communist stumbled down, holding on to the carved
banisters for support. If one could use them, why not
another?

The Marseillaise finished, the Internationale rang
out. There was a burst of enthusiasm, and the noise
of the chorus boisterously rolled round the hall with
a deafening din.

Wenzel rose from his chair, deeming the time a
good one to move. He crossed the hall to the staircase.
With his foot on the first stair he stopped. Some one
was entering the hall by a door just two or three yards
to the side of him, a panelled door which swung on its
hinges, and had been invisible to him before because it
merged into the pattern of the wall.

It was decidedly a less conspicuous entrance to the
other part of the house. In case he should be observed
he slipped and rolled to the floor. When he arose the
door was in front of him, so the next second he was on
the other side, and at once was conscious of a welcome
silence after the noise of the hall.

The passage ahead of him was lit only in one place,
by a faint light escaping from a room on the right;
from a slightly discernible flicker and the soft
yellowness of its gleam Wenzel guessed it to be that of an
oil lamp.

There was, apparently, no one about; Wenzel
wondered if it were too much to hope that all the
Bolsheviks were congregated together. If so, and if
he could but find where Imre and his daughter were,
to escape would be a matter of extreme simplicity.

There was no object in moving secretively; he
shuffled along the passage until he was level with the
lighted room. With a quick sideward glance he looked
within, but it was empty.

He moved on, and the passage turned sharply to the left.

Having turned the corner Wenzel found the darkness
more accentuated, for there were no other lights
to be seen, and the illumination from the lamp in the
room he had just passed had no effect.

Feeling his way along by the wall he penetrated
further into the heart of the castle. He came to another
corner, and as he turned he became conscious of
approaching footsteps.

The castle seemed all corners. The next moment a
man walked suddenly into view from the left, carrying
a candle in his hand. Wenzel darted back into the
shelter of the passage from which he had just emerged,
a plan of action already forming in his brain.

The other man came nearer. Wenzel crouched for
a spring. Then as the Communist turned into his
passage Wenzel moved. With his left arm he grasped
the man round the body in an unavoidable embrace,
while he used his right hand to seize the man's throat,
and gently squeeze the windpipe between thumb and
first finger.

The candle dropped and sizzled out; the comrade
tried convulsively to free himself, but he was helpless.
Wenzel increased the pressure of his arms and felt
his victim sag limply. Then he released his hold on
the man's throat, but quickly transferred his hand to
the mouth, pressing it fiercely so that no sound could
escape.

"Quick, you dog," he said in a low voice, "tell
me, where is Imre Kiss?"

He released his hand from the man's mouth so that
the other might speak. The man breathed hoarsely,
his body panting as he pulled the air into his lungs with
deep gulps.

"Down in the cells," he croaked.

"You know the way?"

The Communist hesitated. Wenzel tightened the
arm which encircled the man's waist till the unfortunate
prisoner felt the air leaving his body again with
a rush.

"Yes, yes," he muttered hoarsely. "I have just
come from there."

"For what reason?"

"Comrade Grocz sent me with this message: 'Tell
the old man to say his prayers; it is nearly time for him
to die.'"

In his fury Wenzel unconsciously increased the
pressure of his arm, and the Communist whimpered
in agony.

"Mercy, mercy," he gasped, "you are killing me!"

Wenzel grunted, but eased up. The man might yet
prove to be of use, otherwise...

"Pick up that candle, light it, and lead me to Imre
Kiss. If you fail, or if you raise the slightest alarm—the
Devil has a special reception for such as you, my
friend, so if you do not want to see him yet awhile——"

Without a word the Communist pulled some matches
from his pocket, and, striking one, looked for the
dropped candle. This he picked up and relit. Holding
it with fingers which shook and trembled in fear he
began to retrace his steps.

Presently they came to stairs which led downward;
cold, stone stairs which, in the past, many a prisoner
had trodden but once—going down. The air was fetid
from the moss-covered walls and lack of ventilation, the
atmosphere chilly and gruesome.

The Communist pointed to the dark depths: "Imre
Kiss is in the second cell on the left."

Wenzel did not waste time in words. He roughly
caught the man by his arms, and with a jerk swung
him forward, and the unwilling guide crept down.

There was a murmuring cry from one of the cells.

"Hear my prayers, O Lord! Guard Elizabeth
from the foul hands of the beast; take my life but
save hers. In Thy infinite justice destroy the man who
would dare lay hands upon her. In Thy Omnipotency,
protect her this night; show mercy to her who hath
ever revered Thy Name."

Conscious, suddenly, of intruders, Imre ceased his
invocation. He saw the light of the candle, the two
Communists—his call had come.

He threw himself on his knees, his arms outstretched
toward them. "Save my daughter! for God's sake
rescue her from the arms of that brute! You shall be
well rewarded. But tell the truth to my friends, and on
my sacred oath you will receive a thousand crowns, ten
thousand crowns, the whole of my fortune, my castle!
I will give you a note of hand; it will be honoured I
swear."

His voice broke; he could say no more, and, believing
his appeal futile, he collapsed to the floor with a sob.

The door of the cell was locked. Wenzel turned to
the guide with a growl. "The key."

"Comrade Grocz has it."

Wenzel swore. The door was an unexpected
obstacle. Unsuspecting the cells he had not worried
about keys. There was no door made to withstand the
force of his shoulders, but the iron-barred gate...

He seized the candle from the hand of the other.
If there were one single flaw, a weakness... But he
found no sign of such, only that the rust of ages had
eaten into the metal. Wenzel passed the candle back
to the Communist.

If only his arms had not suffered from the strain of
that gruelling climb, if only his hands were not still
raw and hard with dried blood; but Wenzel knew
he would have to make the attempt even if his back
broke. There was still echoing in his memory Imre's
prayer....

He stood with his back to the door, which was
composed solely of iron bars. His arms hung down
by his side, his hands gripping a cross bar. Carefully
he placed his feet into position. He was ready.

With a slowly increasing force he pushed, with his
feet, his hands, his back, pushed until his limbs were as
taut as the iron bars themselves. Nothing happened,
so he increased the pressure, and the sweat burst from
his forehead and trickled down his face.

A little more and he would be finished, his strength
exhausted. Despairingly he thrust again—the rusted
iron lock moved, bent beneath the strain, and then
burst; the door swung in, and Wenzel, lurching forward
with it, tumbled to the floor, while the Communist
felt his knees weaken at the joints, wondering whether
it were the Devil himself he watched. For twenty
seconds no one moved, then Wenzel rose to his feet
and turned to Imre Kiss: "Come, there is no time to
waste."

Heavily the old man followed Wenzel out, his legs
scarcely bearing him. Not yet did Imre realize that he
was being rescued. "I am ready," he whispered.

In the meantime Wenzel stood before the trembling
Communist, his lips twisted in an ugly grin. "The
candle," he ordered, and hypnotized by the fierce eyes
the agitator from Budapest passed the guttering tallow
over.

There was no mercy in Wenzel's soul then. Somehow
he must dispose of the Communist, otherwise
there would soon be a warning shout. He could not
lock him up. His arm leaped upward as he clenched
his fist. There was a dull thud as it came into contact
with the man's chin. The Communist's head jerked
back, and he slithered to the ground. There would be
no fear of disturbance from him.

Imre felt sick. "Why did you do that?" he murmured.

"It was the only way," Wenzel replied harshly.
"Otherwise he might have raised an alarm."

"An alarm!" Imre's trembling fingers waveringly
flew to his mouth, and slowly his eyes brightened in
hope. "You—you are here to rescue me?"

"You and your daughter, Elizabeth."

Imre tried to speak, his lips quivered; but his brain
was overwhelmed by a rushing flood of relief, and the
words refused to come. He could only stare at Wenzel;
yet all his unspoken gratitude was in that look, in the
curving smile, in the fading lines, and in the eyes
which streamed with tears of joy and happiness.

"Come, we must not stop here." Wenzel's voice
was gentle; more so than it had been for many months.
"First you must show me the way to the roof."

"The roof? ... But ... but ... why?"

Wenzel's face hardened. "Question me not, but
lead." And Imre Kiss, who, because of the way in
which his rescuer had wrapped his face, could see
nothing but his eyes, led the way without another word.

There was an incident on the way up to the roof.
They heard approaching voices: Imre turned round
helplessly to the White Knight. Wenzel picked the
other man up and flung him across his shoulders like
a sack of flour.

Two Communists staggered into them. "Ho, ho!"
leered one. "Our friend carries a man to his room.
Why is it a man you choose to take to your room,
comrade?" and he dug Wenzel in the ribs. "What
is the matter with him?"

"He is fuller with wine than a barrel."

"Oh, ho! Have they found some more?"

"It flows like the Danube in the hall. I am just
going down to have my fill."

The two Communists exchanged glances. "It will
be a big one," said one, "we had better get there first."

When Wenzel set Imre upon his feet again, the old
man turned to him. "That was clever," he said simply.

At last they reached the roof, and crossed to where
the gallows stood awaiting its victim. Imre shuddered.

The long length of rope with its running noose, the
noose which was never to tighten, was there, prepared.
Wenzel observed the fact grimly. It was for this that
he had come. He stepped forward and pulled the
rope from the supports, and having untied the noose
estimated the length.

"Seventeen feet," he surmised, "a drop of from
four or five feet, allowing for tying." Turning to
Imre he asked: "Is there a direct way from here to
the battlements on the right, or must we descend to the
courtyard and cross?"

"No; there is an exterior staircase—a modern
innovation. My own, as a matter of fact."

"Huh! It may save your life." Wenzel laughed
shortly. "You scarcely foresaw this when you had it
built?"

"God forbid!"

A few seconds later they were on the battlements at
the spot where Wenzel had climbed scarcely an hour
ago. He formed his lips into a circle, and a hoot of
an owl rang through the quiet night, to be echoed from
below.

Wenzel turned to Imre: "Listen carefully to my
instructions. I shall drop you by means of this rope
to where my friend stands below. It is five feet short.
When it reaches its capacity I shall tug it twice. Then
you must untie yourself and drop. When you meet my
friend you and he must go at once to the nearest village.
Afterwards Terhune—my lieutenant—will know what
to do. You understand? You must set off at once."

"But—but my daughter?"

There was a rasp in Wenzel's voice when he answered:
"You must obey me."

It did not take a moment to fix the rope round Imre's
waist. Afterward the old man climbed over the parapet,
and Wenzel commenced to lower him. Foot by foot the
hemp passed through his hands till it came to the end.
He lifted it slightly and lowered it. Then he raised it
again for the second tug, and a calamity occurred.

The rasping fibre bit into his tender hand, where
it suddenly scraped a nerve. Involuntarily his hand
unclasped—and Imre dropped, the rope with him.

The loss of it was a blow: Wenzel had been relying
on it to let down Elizabeth and himself. But there
was no time to waste in vain regrets. It was more
than possible Grocz might send down further insulting
messages to his prisoner, and once the escape was
discovered it would be awkward for both the girl and
himself unless they were away by then.

Awaiting only Arnold's signal that Imre was safe,
Wenzel commenced cautiously to feel his way to the
roof and back again to the stairs which led into the
castle. He had learned from Imre the position of
Elizabeth's room and now he made his way toward it.

There was no one about. Still more fortunate proved
the fact that the key was in the door. He unlocked it
and entered.

The room was in pitch darkness; the candle which
Grocz had left had already burned down to nothing.
Hearing him, Elizabeth gave a muffled shriek.

"Fear not, mademoiselle."

Three simple words, but to Elizabeth they represented
a suggestion of unexpected comradeship. The
deep, resonant tone of his voice echoed round the room.

"Fear not!" A cultured voice at last, when all she
had heard that day had been the slurring accents of the
uncouth, the uneducated.

"Fear not!" Whatever words that voice might have
conveyed to her hearing none could have been more
superfluous, for the deep notes inspired trust, revealed
the voice of a gentleman.

Just as her father had done, Elizabeth sobbed
slightly at the unexpected possibility of succour which
was so suddenly held out before her, dazzling in its
promise. Once again the strain of the occult within
warned her that the man whose voice had floated to
her through the darkness was a friend, even though
he had not told her so.

"Mademoiselle, I have come to rescue you." If
she had needed proof his words supplied it.

"Oh, thank God!" she murmured. "For if—if
that man had come to me I would have died....
But—my father——"

"Is already safe and sound."

Wenzel heard a soft, cooing laugh. "Oh, monsieur,
how can I thank you? Whatever can I say or do to
show my gratitude? My father safe! It
sounds—wonderful. You have done this?"

"I have." Impatiently he replied, but if his manner
was brusque she did not notice it.

In a low, vibrant voice, which grew softer as she
approached him, she poured out her gratitude in full
measure: "Monsieur, what you have done this night
will for ever live within my memory. On every
anniversary of this date I shall bless your name, remember
every word you speak, picture to myself every line of
your face——"

"Stop!" Fiercely, passionately he hurled the word
at her, for the pain of her gentle thoughts seared into
his heart with a rending, tearing gash. "Every line
of his face." God! Why had she said that? How well
he knew that once she saw his face each line of it would
indeed be for ever depicted in her memory—but not in
the way she believed. Its forbidding distortion would
haunt her, its satyr-like grimness would represent a
horror from which she would turn away in fear and
loathing.

"I want neither your thanks nor your remembrance.
Do you not realize that at any moment your father's
escape may be discovered? Get ready!" he ordered,
and his words cut through the intervening space with
the sharpness of a rapier.

Bewildered and confused by his attitude she could
only answer in a low undertone: "I am ready." What
type of man was it who had so suddenly slipped into
her life? Intuition, her sense of hearing, everything
suggested that her unseen rescuer was a gentleman,
yet his last words were those of a blustering bully, a
coarse and domineering adventurer.

"Then come." He stretched out his arm, and his
hand came into contact with her wrist. He seized it
firmly, and pulled her roughly to the door.

With the other hand upon the door-handle he
stopped dead, as suddenly from below there was a
reverberating shout, a rumbling yell of rage. Wenzel's
lips compressed, and unconsciously he tightened his
grip upon her arm, till she could stand it no longer,
and she screamed slightly with the agony.

He thought it was fear: "Keep quiet; there is still
time to escape."

She writhed at the scorn in his voice, but she knew
that in spite of his optimism escape was rapidly becoming
impossible. Once the rabble downstairs took it into
their heads to make sure she was still safe——

The noise swelled louder, as a drunken fury seized
the crowd. "Where's the girl? Hang her! ... Death
to the bourgeoise! Where's her room?"

Clearly the shouts echoed along the passages; and then
there was a noise of pounding steps, a clamorous yelling.
Worked into a frenzy the mob was on its way up.

Wenzel would have pulled her out in an attempt to
avoid the Communists, but her knowledge of the castle
warned her that they were hemmed in, that they were
being approached from both ways.

"Too late. We are cut off." Quite calmly she
informed him of the fact, so that even he could not
fail to appreciate the lack of fear in her voice.

"You are not afraid?" he asked quickly.

"If my father is safe—no," she replied quietly.

He secured the key, and turned it in the lock, breathing
a sigh of thankfulness that the door was strongly
built, the lock more so. For a short while it would
resist the onslaught of the attackers, and in that time
he might yet find a means of escape.

"Tell me quickly, is there no other way out, no
other door?"

"But one door and one window."

"The window——"

She did not hear the finish of his sentence for the
deafening din outside. Like a pack of wolves the
crowd was gathered to batten on the flesh of the innocent
girl, and like the animals whose human prototypes they
were they raised their voices at the scent of prey.

When they found the door locked their anger knew
no bounds. With fists and feet they beat upon the
stout door till it shivered beneath the assault. "Kill her!
Hang her!" they shouted, and only one expostulated
with them.

Mad with rage at the thought of his victim escaping
his clutches, even at the end of the hangman's rope,
Comrade Grocz tried in vain to stem the flood. Above
the roar of other voices his stridently rose: "Comrades,
comrades, the girl is mine. She was given to me by
Bela Kun, the Dictator of the Proletariat. You shall
not kill her! Stop, stop, I say!"

He might have attempted to prevent a raincloud
bursting. "Get away, Grocz. She must die."

"But she was given to me!" he shrieked.

"Yah! Yah!" Two or three laughed boisterously,
and one cried out: "You forget, Comrade Grocz, that
the Dictatorship has abolished all private ownership."

"Ay! Kill her! Hang the girl!"

"Stop! Stop!" Grocz grew desperate. "Listen.
Do not kill her ... let us share her, as all good
Communists should."

As though at a signal the wild noise now ceased,
while this fresh aspect of the situation slowly burned
itself into the obtuse minds of the Communists.

Wenzel had to close his eyes; a red filmy cloud
floated before them, summoned by the boiling fury
which surged up from his heart. Only with an effort
of will did he pull himself together and think
rationally—he wanted to throw open the door, throttle the
vile laughter of the men with his hands, smash them
with his fists, pound them to death.

He knew that she had heard, for he heard her catch
in her breath with a gush of horror, and felt her
trembling. This time he could not mock her weakness.

"The window," he prompted.

"Had the worst come, I should have—have thrown
myself out."

"You mean—suicide?"

"Yes," she breathed softly. "May Heaven forgive
me for the thought."

"What is below?—the courtyard?"

"No, the Danube, fifty feet down."

"The Danube!" So her room was on the fourth
side of the castle? A fifty-foot drop—but if it were
a clear fall into the water there would be at least a
chance. "Is it a clear drop?"

"Practically. The cliff at this part overhangs the
edge of the water, and the castle is built on the extreme
edge. With a good jump one might avoid the bank."

"Yet you spoke of suicide!"

"The current, monsieur, runs swiftly at this part.
No one could hope to swim against it."

Outside the Communists understood at last, and
now, urged on by a different kind of excitement, the
tumultuous clatter recommenced. "Break open the
door! Let us feast our eyes upon her beauty." The
pressure of weight was beginning to have its effect, for
the door cracked suspiciously.

So it seemed that Death might claim him at last!
Wenzel felt a glow of contentment stealing over him.
Perhaps Zita waited for him, there, just beyond the
Veil, with outstretched arms....

"Mademoiselle, are you prepared to jump?"

"Gladly. Death can be no worse than—than—— Oh,
Mother in Heaven, what has happened to our
unhappy country? Monsieur, I am ready."

Not too soon. The door was groaning and splitting.
She guided him to the window, and flung it open.
Wenzel felt her raise herself up until she was standing
on the ledge. He did the same, and so tall was the
window that he, for all his height, could yet stand upright.

Before them was a grim blackness, an abyss of gloom.
Not even was there the light of a star to twinkle a
message of confidence. Behind them an equal density,
and men whose souls were blacker still. Nothing but
impenetrable darkness in every direction.

The moment was awe-inspiring, soul-crushing.
There was a sensation of immensity, a feeling of
unfathomable depth. When they jumped it would
be—whither?—where? Perhaps, by a trickery of fate, on
to the cruel rocks which bordered the river, and which
would crush their bodies into pulp; or perhaps into
shallow water where they would split open on the river
bed.

"You are still not afraid?" he asked.

"Yes, but ready." Her voice was firm and steady,
and Wenzel felt a sudden thrill of admiration at her
nerve and courage. All at once it seemed to him a
pity that such a woman should die. Still...

Even as the door gave way he picked her up in his
arms. Bracing his legs he jumped....

He experienced no particular feeling, just a hotch-potch
of different sensations—of suffocation, of
helplessness, the noise of raging winds and rushing waters,
eternity, and finally a shock, which left him dazed and
stunned, as they entered the water.

Down, down, and still down. His lungs were bursting.
There was no question of thought. It was instinct
which made him curve his body so that their hurtling
flight to the bottom was diverted; it was the inevitable
fight for life which set his legs kicking, shooting his
body up to the surface again.

Then air, precious life-provoking air. He filled his
lungs with deep soul-satisfying gulps, and soon
consciousness returned to him. Elizabeth was still in his
arms, limp and motionless, and Wenzel believed she
was stunned. Better so—she might have struggled.

Already his thoughts were turning toward life, and
while before jumping he had welcomed death, now he
wanted to live, to reach the bank, to carry his precious
burden to a place of safety.

With this resolve came the knowledge that Elizabeth
had not exaggerated the strength of the current.
He felt it now pulling, now boisterously twisting and
pushing them along hither and thither; but all the
time insidiously, inexorably drawing them along on its
bosom.

If Elizabeth—if he—were to live he must strike out
for the bank. Somehow he shifted the girl until she
was half across his back, so that he could hold her with
one hand, then with the other he commenced to swim.

He found it easy. With sure, even strokes he
gradually progressed, and buoyed up with enthusiasm and
confidence he believed it would be a matter of minutes
only before he reached the river bank. The current,
apparently, was not so strong as it seemed.

Yet the minutes dragged by. Surely now, he
thought, he must be in the shallows. He stopped short,
and trod water, attempting to feel bottom, but his feet
met with no resistance.

Once again his arm and his legs thrashed out—then,
all at once, he realized the truth. No wonder the going
was easy, for he was swimming with the current instead
of across it!

He turned to his right, and instantly experienced the
rush of the water, for now he made no progress forward,
but was swept along, broadside on.

He was tired, and the cold water began to chill him,
but urged by an impulse which he could not translate
he struggled on, ignoring the possibility of surrendering
himself to the water and the waiting arms of Death.
Elizabeth must live—that much he knew; and so he
kept going, kept on until his body was once again
racked with pain.

He had done so much that night, what more could
he do? Why should he do more? If he gave up
now he could sleep so easily, so peacefully! His mind
worked sluggishly. One, two, three! One, two three!
His strong arm, though weakened by strain, continued
to strike out regularly. His limbs moved like an
automaton, but he still progressed.

The rush of the water grew louder, and Wenzel's
head began to sing. Much more and it would be the
end. Much more... much more... The words
twisted themselves into a refrain, and the music was in
time to his strokes. Much more...

Something scraped the toe of his boot, again and yet
again, and he knew he had touched bottom. A few
more strokes and he discovered that he could stand.
Somehow he stumbled through the water till it dropped
from his chin to his hips, from his waist to his ankles,
and then—there was no more water.

* * * * * *

When Elizabeth came to she was in a peasant's
hut, lying in a crude bed. Across the room, bending
over a log fire, a woman was cooking something, the
appetizing odour of which pervaded the room.

Elizabeth gazed around wonderingly, unable to
collect her thoughts together. But presently she
remembered. One after another the vivid details
returned to her, concluding with the last terrible jump
into an inky nothingness....

Where was her unknown rescuer? She looked
around, but except for the peasant woman she could
see no one. Then, on a chair she saw a note. It was
so brief that it brought the tears to her eyes; just:

MADEMOISELLE,

You are safe with this woman.
Adieu.

"Adieu!" Good-bye! She gazed away.

He had almost written Au revoir, for as he himself
had laid her on the rough blanket, and gazed upon her
beauty, his lips had trembled. It was not that she was
really like the Zita he remembered, yet...

# CHAPTER VII

The hour was past nine o'clock before the
Council meeting broke up, and Eugene
Hamburger, Commissary for Agriculture, together
with his assistant, Apor, were free to leave.

For a while they walked together discussing the
work of the day.

"Well, my friend, life is different from what it was
in the old days. You and me, what were we before
the glorious days of the Revolution? What were we
all, who are, to-day, the proud leaders of the world?
Slaves of the capitalists, sweating and toiling for a
meagre pittance, living in slums and tenements, while
our masters reaped the harvest of our industry. What
did they do with the money? Increase our wages?
No! Improve our houses, help our families? No!
They lazed away their useless lives in luxurious
idleness; lived in glorious palaces; travelled in handsome
limousines." Hamburger chuckled. "Times are not
the same. We are the nobles now, Apor, you and I;
we are the people who count."

"How can we be the nobles? I thought we were
all equal now?" Apor dryly put the question to the
commissary.

"Stuff and nonsense! You provoke me to anger,
comrade; you are for ever casting shadows upon the
golden vista of Communist dreams."

"Well! Well!" mollified Apor. "You must
remember that the brighter the sun shines the blacker
is the shadow. Do not think I am not satisfied. My
only question is: will it last?"

"Bah! Croaking again! Can it do otherwise? How
can anything be altered? Does not the Soviet control
the country from top to bottom: the Army, the post
offices, the banks, the public services, and the people?
Do you think the people would wish to rise against us,
even if they dared? You are stupid, friend! They have
never been so well off as they are to-day. Free as the
air, the poorest as rich as the wealthiest, the affluent
as destitute as the pauper. The State owns everything,
and in the eyes of the State each one of us is equal.
Could life be better?"

"And yet the members of the Soviet ride about in
motor-cars, and their humble 'equals' walk to work!"

Hamburger's cheeks flushed. "You argue absurdly,
Apor. The State merely lends the motor-cars to the
Soviet for their extra responsibility."

"I see!" Apor paused, as if thinking deeply.
"But the capitalists of the old days, were they not
entitled to motor-cars for their share of responsibility?"

The commissary growled. "You are impossible
to-night, comrade. You see matters through a smoky
pair of spectacles. Much more, and I shall suspect that
you have views which do not agree with the doctrines
of Communism."

Apor answered smoothly: "Not at all, my friend.
I merely argue as one equal to another. We are as free
as air, I think you said. Except to think differently,
eh, comrade? But there, my tongue is sharp from the
vinegar I swallowed to-day. I argue only that I can
have the benefit of your wisdom, to be even better
assured of the splendid principles of Communism."

Hamburger was pleased, for he laughed softly.
"It is a good thing I know you as well as I do, Apor.
But there; have I not always thought you a wise sort
of a fellow, for all the queer kinks in your brain? I
think we part here. I have to-day moved into my free
quarters in the Hotel Bristol. Good night, Apor."

"Good night..." Hamburger disappeared into
the darkness of the night, and Apor continued savagely
to himself: "... and may your bones rot on a dung
heap, and your flesh feed the rats."

He turned on his heels and retraced his steps.
Presently, out of the corner of his eye, he saw a lurking
shadow move softly to his side and walk with him.

"You are late to-night."

"Yes. Their rhetoric becomes wilder as their
courage strengthens."

"What do you mean?"

"What do I mean, Wenzel? God! only what I say.
Their grip on the country becomes firmer every day.
Unless something happens soon, Hungary will be
ruined beyond all power of recovery. Already she
is weakening beneath the crushing ravages of these
Russian-financed Bolsheviks. Yes, Wenzel, there is
scarcely one who does not spend Russian gold. But
where have you been the last two days?"

"Rescuing Imre Kiss and his daughter Elizabeth.
Have you heard?"

"Heard!" Suddenly Apor exploded with laughter.
"My dear man, the only thing which surprises me is
that you did not hear the echo of the howl which went
up when the Council was made cognizant of their
escape. For ten minutes nearly every man present
shouted at once. But how did you learn of their plans
on the Castle Gisella? When I came to warn you, you
had gone."

"Arnold overheard Grocz at the station. He was
boasting to his friends of what he was going to do to
the father—and the daughter. Now, what news have
you for me?"

"Bad, Wenzel; bad. For once you have slipped.
Your identity is known. You are no longer safe in
Budapest."

"Damn!" Aghast at the information, Wenzel
unconsciously spoke in English, and Apor started.

"Hush, for God's sake! Never more truly was it
said that walls have ears, Wenzel. Detectives swarm
all over the place. A word in English is enough to
draw a dozen after you."

"Why?"

"Because already the rumour has gone round that
the White Knight is English."

Wenzel groaned. "Refugees must have been babbling.
After all my warnings, too! Yet, tell me, how
came they to connect Wenzel with the White Knight?"

"Simply! When Count Bakocz escaped they sent
for you. You were not there and they searched your
rooms and found—a white knight."

Wenzel swore again, this time beneath his breath.
To have left such an easy clue behind him!

"What a fool I was, what a fool! Now must I find
fresh lodgings."

"No, Wenzel, you must go altogether. They are
hunting for you right and left."

"Enough, Apor!" There was a steely warning in
his voice, but Apor heeded it not.

"But, Wenzel, I am Hungarian born and bred,
I, who have, under a different name, suffered untold
miseries at the hands of the Bolshevik swine, I am
prepared to give my life gladly, and doubtless shall,
to bring an end to the Red Terror. But you—you
are an Englishman, a foreigner! Why, already we
Hungarians owe you far more than we can ever hope to
pay. Why should you linger here, your life forfeit the
moment you are discovered?"

Wenzel did not at first reply, but when he did his
voice was curiously soft: "Dear friend, ask me not
my reasons. Sufficient that even though death means
nothing to me, should I allow you to stay here in
danger, you who act as my eyes and ears in the Soviet
Council, and yet fear to come myself? Pursue not the
question, Apor. It hurts. Now tell me the latest plans."

"Conditions are more terrible than ever, as I have
already said; but, worse still, petty counter-revolutions
are springing up all over the place."

The Englishman made an angry exclamation.
"Fools! Why must they set about such hazardous
undertakings, which can only end in humiliating defeat?
If they would only wait with patience just a little longer.
In Vienna there is already a movement afoot.... Yet
I may not say more—in fact, I know very little myself.
Soon I expect a friend with news, but until then..."

"Do not blame them, Wenzel. In one way—well,
it is pleasing to note that there are still Hungarians
living who love their country, who have not fallen under
the thrall of the mouthing Bolshevik orators."

There was a significant undercurrent in his voice,
almost of apology, which did not escape Wenzel's keen
ear. They were passing under one of the few street
lamps which were still burning, and the Englishman
put out his hand and restrained the other, then swung
him round so that they were face to face.

"Apor, you are not joining any counter-revolutionary
movement?"

Beneath his steady scrutiny Apor's eyes dropped, and
Wenzel knew that he had guessed the truth.

"Apor! Why must you? Don't you realize that
the time is not yet? You will only run your head into
the loop which awaits it if you continue; and if you
do not fear death, won't you please try to remember
that, situated as at present, you are a most valuable
spy? There are more saved lives to your credit than
fingers on your hand."

"I know! I know!" Apor shook his head helplessly,
and there was an unhappy crease just above his
eyes. "Yet my soul writhes every time I look at the
Red cockade. It is the insignia of blood. Supposing
one of the counter-revolutionary movements should
turn out to be a success and I were not in it? I should
never forgive myself."

Wenzel's voice was hard when he replied: "Yet,
Apor, you must work for me alone. You cannot serve
two taskmasters. You are inflamed by a fanatical
patriotism, and yet, worthy as it may seem, you are
blinded by its light, you do not foresee its actualities.
Come, Apor; if you love Hungary guard yourself
from suspicion, keep free from anything which may cast
doubt upon you in the eyes of the Council. Now of
these petty revolutions! What happens?"

"Don't ask me!" His voice cracked. "It is awful!
The Council tells Szamuelly, then the brute leers, and
goes off to his Death Train; the next day—he hangs
Hungarians promiscuously. Guilty or not guilty, he
strings up any man upon whom he can lay his hands
and——"

There was a dramatic interruption. Some twenty
yards behind there was a sudden burst of noise, a
sound of running footsteps and hoarse shouting, then
a series of flickering flashes which heralded the ensuing
staccato explosions of several rifles.

Simultaneously there was a scream and the whistling
screech of bullets. Wenzel grunted slightly. He was
unhurt, but it had been but a matter of inches. A
little more to his right, and at least one of the missiles
would have found a billet.

"Quick, Apor, are you unhurt?"

"Only just."

"Then run like Hades. It is another poor victim.
Whatever happens we must not be found together."

Without another word they parted, and rapidly
merged into the darkness.

Presently Wenzel stopped, and from a distance
watched. Around the figure of a man stretched out
upon the pavement were grouped half a dozen Red
soldiers, laughing and joking.

One of them kicked the helpless, stricken man, and
even at that distance Wenzel heard the moan of pain.
Evidently the human hare was still alive.

Two of the soldiers hoisted the man to his feet, then
dragged him along, and Wenzel followed, impelled
by a curiosity he could not define. Perhaps for nearly
a quarter of a mile the Bolsheviks pushed and pulled
the wounded sufferer, till at last they were near the
river. The soldiers kept on until they were half-way
across the Francis Joseph Bridge, where it was pitch
dark, and from where he was Wenzel could see nothing.
Yet, all at once, there was a desperate cry for help and
then—a splash. The Reds laughed boisterously, and
continued their way. Presently there was silence.

The Englishman stood still, gazing into the blackness
of the night. The Danube sucked yet one more
body into its depths. There was a distant rumble of
thunder, from where a storm played round the hills
beyond old Buda, yet it seemed to Wenzel more a
rolling chuckle of laughter from Mars, as he watched
and ticked off one more life in his already long and
fearful list. To the fierce Roman god of war it must
have seemed almost as bloody a sport as a European
war.

* * * * * *

Wenzel restlessly tossed and turned about in the
small truckle-bed which he had managed to secure for
the night, vainly endeavouring to woo his active mind
into repose.

He found himself haunted by dreams and visions,
jumbled together into a confused sequence of events,
in which but three pictures were outstanding. First
and foremost he could see, once again, the scene on
the Francis Joseph Bridge, the wounded victim of
Bolshevik persecution, struggling desperately in the
arms of the brutal Red soldiers, being gradually lifted
up for the final throw over the parapet of the bridge.

Wenzel had seen death in many guises, till his heart
had become callous through familiarity. He had
himself killed Germans in hot blood, and Hungarian
Bolsheviks in cold blood, yet never had he believed
till now that death could be so ghastly, so savage and
ruthless.

It might have been the despairing cry which had
rung through the night air, the almost invisible
surroundings in which the crime had been committed;
it might have been the echoing sound of the significant
splash; whatever it was, Wenzel could not altogether
dismiss the scene from his memory, it revolved, repeated,
and exaggerated itself.

Then, as the murder on the bridge faded away, it
was succeeded by another vivid picture; there on the
floor lay Zita's father, his corpse slashed and hacked,
and Zita herself, dead from shock, her eyes mirroring
the terrible scene.

Yet there was one other image which floated before
his eyes, hid slightly by a multi-coloured haze—once
again he held in his arms a living, pulsating body,
though limp and unconscious. In his muscular arms
she lay as lightly as a feather, yet her soaking clothes
had wrapped themselves round her limbs, revealing
and betraying every curve, every line, so that he saw
she was exquisitely formed, beautiful in her tapering
svelteness, her divinely proportioned shape.

The dark tresses of her hair were massed into a
mystic aureole, a dusky halo which emphasized the
clarity of her sun-burned complexion. He remembered
the symmetry of her features, the daintiness of her nose,
the soft curve of her lips.

It was this fantasy which lingered longest in his
dreams, so vivid in one sense, and yet so ethereal.
When his thoughts idly hovered upon Elizabeth he
saw her so, but when he would have concentrated,
have definitely and indelibly implanted the picture in
his memory, it faded away like a puff of smoke.

Presently he realized that he was more wideawake
than ever; his brain, stirred by the imagery of his
mental travels, was insistently devoting itself to
Zita—and to Elizabeth.

He was conscious of an overwhelming impulse to
see Elizabeth again. He wanted to compare her finely
chiselled nostrils with those of Zita, to discover whether
they quivered sensitively with pride and emotion as had
Zita's, whether her eyes, too, glowed with an inward
fire.

He wanted to hear again Elizabeth speaking. That
night in the castle her voice had been so full of throbbing
music, so liquidly clear and steady. He wanted to feel
once more the velvet softness of her skin, the smooth,
cool touch of her fingers.

He did not think it treachery to Zita to think thus,
for she and Elizabeth seemed so much alike. In the
thoughts of them both, in the rapid replacement
and displacement of their images in his vision, their
differences dissolved, and merged gradually into one;
and the face which smiled at him from the happy
fastnesses of his dreams was neither that of Zita nor that
of Elizabeth.

Somewhere within him, though as yet he failed
to realize it, the warm blood was beginning to flow
again; chilled and frozen by the death of Zita, it was
infinitesimally thawed by the thought of Elizabeth.
Something tugged at his heart-strings: he felt an
overpowering impulse to visit the Château Juhusz, where
were Elizabeth and her father, the Bakocz family, and
others whom he had rescued.

He knew he could get there and back again to
Budapest on the morrow; the inclination strengthened
as he thought the matter carefully over. Finally he
decided to make the journey, and in less than five
minutes he was asleep.

When he awoke the next morning the sun was
shining in a cloudless sky, and because of the strange,
unaccountable exuberance of spirits which enveloped
him it was as if it were a good omen for his journey
to the Château Juhusz.

He knew that it was dangerous to venture into the
streets in broad daylight; it was well within the bounds
of possibility that he might be seen and recognized by
any one of a dozen or so people: Bela Kun, Szamuelly,
or any one of the Council; Garami or one of the Red
guards at the prison; still more likely by one of
the many detectives who swarmed the city spying
out enemies of the Commune and signs of counter-revolutions.

Nevertheless, he was blithely contemptuous of the
fact, believing it to be one thing for them to see him,
but another to catch him. His legs were capable of
covering good ground in the event of a chase; his arms
he considered more than equal to two, or even three, of
the average stunted and degenerate Bolsheviks; and
if it came to gunfire there was in his hip-pocket a fully
loaded revolver which he could use effectively.

What he did was to wrap his dirty scarf more tightly
round his neck, and to pull his cap even further over
his eyes; prepared for all emergencies he ventured out
and made his way to the station.

As he approached nearer his destination he was surprised
by its unusual quietness. Where usually it was
thronged with travellers, Red guards, surly railwaymen,
shouting newsboys, and all the medley of types usually
scattered around a railway terminus, this morning
there was comparatively no one to be seen, only here
and there a small group of people, gesticulating wildly,
and arguing with one another.

Not until he was immediately opposite the once
handsome station did he discover that all entrance to
the platform was forbidden.

"What's the matter, comrade?" he asked of a Red
guard who lounged near.

"The railwaymen have struck for more money,"
replied the other.

It was grimly humorous, but Wenzel dared not
display any sign of his real feelings. He spat on the
ground. "Ho! May the fires burn brighter in Hades,
but your news is anything but good, comrade! There
is a pretty wench anxiously awaiting my arrival some
miles off. How am I going to reach her?"

The guard grinned. "She will have to wait even
longer than a day unless you walk."

"Bah! I don't believe you. Wait until the Council
takes the situation in hand. The strike will fizzle out
like damp gunpowder."

"Perhaps." The guard shrugged his shoulders.
"Anyway, I hear Comrade Szamuelly is going to settle
the dispute. He has a winning way with him, has
Szamuelly."

"Ay! Well, I hope he succeeds, that's what I say.
I hope he does."

Wenzel moved away, growling, but if the words
which the Red guard caught were enough to make him
grin, they were nothing compared with the fury which
inwardly consumed the White Knight.

So much for good omens! All his plans to visit
the château that day, and return at night, completely
shattered.

He walked heedlessly along the streets, utterly
oblivious of the people in his way, so that there were
several into whom he banged, passing on without a
word, and because they were rapidly becoming crushed
and cowed by the Terror they continued meekly and
unprotestingly.

For perhaps twenty minutes he traversed the streets;
not until then did it occur to him that he might walk
to the château. It would be a long and arduous tramp,
but had he not been hardened to such by four years of
route marches? To think the matter over he stopped
for coffee at one of the innumerable coffee-houses, many
of which were still carrying on a desultory trade.

The Château Juhusz, though more modern than
the Castle Gisella, had long ago fallen into decay, and
in consequence had been deserted by its owners. Built
during times of peace, it had been designed more for
comfort than utility, and so the ravages of time, which
left older and more strongly built residences comparatively
untouched, had eaten into the delicate fabric of the
building and underpinned its less solid foundations.

It was Apor who had suggested these quarters as
an admirable hiding-place for the hunted refugees, and
Wenzel, examining its situation with a critical eye,
recognized its advantages. Built deep in a thick pine
forest on the slope of a small valley, it was encircled
in every direction by well-wooded hills, and was
completely shut off from the world. The nearest village
was approximately ten miles away; with it, naturally,
the nearest railway station.

Who had built it in such an inaccessible spot, and
why, Wenzel had been unable to fathom, but at any
rate it was more than admirable for the purpose
suggested by Apor. If the Communists imagined for a
moment that the ci-devant magnates, reared in the lap
of luxury, could eke out an existence inside the weather-scarred
walls of the château, they were content to leave
them there unmolested; except where prisoners came
easily to their hands, plunder was of paramount
importance. A ten-mile march over the hill-tops with no
prospect of loot at the other end would be a senseless
waste of time—so the retreat sheltered many who owed
their lives to the White Knight.

By train and a subsequent walk the total distance was
nearly forty miles, but, remembering that the railway
track curved fairly considerably about twenty miles out
of Budapest, Wenzel had a shrewd suspicion that by
road the distance might be appreciably less.

He paid his reckoning, quickly left the coffee-house,
and made his way toward the shopping district. Some
of the shops were open, but their windows were
lamentably bare. In the Communistic dictionary the
word shopkeeper is synonymous with bourgeois, and so
the Reds in Budapest had the happy trick of descending
upon the unfortunate shopkeepers and, in the name
of the Soviet, appropriating the greater part of their
goods, for the benefit, usually, of the reformed battalions
of Red guards.

Twice, in less than a quarter of a mile, Wenzel
entered a possible shop and inquired for a road-map of
Hungary. In each case the reply was the same. One
of the men had tears in his eyes.

"If you had come but the day before yesterday I
could have served you. Yesterday"—he choked—"the
Red guards came in. They were marching to
the front, they said, to send the cowardly Czechs
scuttling back to their own country, and therefore in the
name of the Government they demanded all my stock.
I must be patriotic, they said. They took everything,
whether it was of use or not. What they did not want
the men gave to their wives or mistresses. I am
penniless now. All I ... I can do is ... is to become
a Communist myself. Perhaps I shall be better off
then."

Eventually Wenzel secured what he wanted. Poring
over the map with eager eyes he discovered that his
assumption was correct. By road, so far as he could
estimate, the distance would be not more than
twenty-seven to thirty miles.

Thirty miles! A seven-hour walk at the most!
Wenzel glanced at his watch. There would just be
time to get there before night blotted out the unknown
roads. He memorized the map, deeming it unwise
to consult it more than necessary, and once having
fixed the route in his mind he set out.

The hours passed by. About noon the sky clouded
over, and Wenzel cursed, afraid it presaged rain, but a
westerly wind soon carried the darkest patches along,
and the sun shone again, though fitfully.

By this time he had left Buda well behind, and also
O'-Buda, higher up in the hills, built on the spot where
once had flourished the Roman colony of Aquincum.
Below him the city was spread out in a panorama, the
Danube glitteringly winding its way through the centre.
He found then he was not covering the distance he had
estimated—the road seemed for ever on the upward
trend, and he realized, much to his surprise, that even
in seven months the physical frame can soften slightly.

After several heavy-going miles the grade lessened,
his walk became easier, and before another two hours
had passed his long legs had more than made up the
lost time.

He had something to eat at a little roadside tavern,
though it was scanty and poorly cooked, consisting of
Gulyas, the national Hungarian dish, a type of Irish
stew. This he washed down with an inferior red wine.
For all that it was a princely repast compared with the
food obtainable in Budapest, where watery soup and
bread were sometimes the only means of subsistence.

At five o'clock he was at the foot of a hill, and within
five miles of his destination. By now he was tired, his
left heel was troubling him; but his heart was light,
and he hummed the air of a Hungarian folk-song. The
top reached, he gazed at the scene before him. The hill
dropped steeply to a valley, only to rise as quickly
again to an even higher elevation. On the other side
of the farther hill was the château.

The picture was delightful: Nature appeared to have
permitted herself a free hand, and her subtle brush had
not wavered in her task. The woods were dotted thickly
but unevenly, and the blank spaces had been filled up
with either green patches of meadowland or else dark
grey areas of bare, rugged nakedness.

There was but one blemish: four thin, parallel lines,
painfully stark and uncamouflaged, forged their way
from as far as one could see, and betrayed the hand
of man. In callous comparison with the beauties
of the valley the railway lines represented human
commercialism, inexorable progress.

The sun was dipping rapidly now; Wenzel dared
waste no time, and so he stepped forward once more
on the last stage of his journey, and crossing the iron
road to Budapest he soon mounted the second hill, till
reaching its highest peak he saw, a quarter of a mile
below him, the ruined mansion.

He threaded his way through the trees until they
thinned out; then through them he could see the
château. No wonder it was ignored by the Communists.
The mere sight of it was nearly enough to damp his
newly born sensation of—of—— He shrugged his
shoulders when he tried to analyse his emotions.

Not many of the long French windows were whole,
or even unharmed. Most of them were devoid of any
semblance of glass, just a few of them still boasted
cracked and broken remains. The exterior woodwork
was dull and colourless, the tiles of the roof green with
moss.

What were once gardens surrounding the building
were now a wilderness of cultivated plants turned to
weeds. The flagged paths almost lost their identity
below the drooping greenstuff; a mournful Mercury,
chipped and yellow, no longer poured out a cascade
of pure water into the fountain beneath, but stood up
desolate and useless.

He had seen it before, but it seemed to him that its
atmosphere was more doleful than ever, an unwritten
epitaph on the straits to which the unhappy aristocrats
had fallen. He wondered what effect it had upon its
present occupiers.

His question was to be answered immediately, for
even as he watched three people issued from within, and
he started slightly as he recognized two of them.

In the middle was Terhune, with Elizabeth on his
right, and on his left one who could only be Cecile;
for it was as if he were gazing at her photograph, so
vivid had been Arnold's many descriptions of her.

Eagerly he watched Elizabeth, noting every fleeting
expression of her face, every movement of her graceful
body, and his heart sang a pæan of joy as he realized
that she more than fulfilled his picture of her, built
up from that brief period during which she had lain
unconscious in his arms.

For some few minutes his eyes followed her, till the
vision of her as he saw her now, her beauty emphasized
vividly by the misted background of the château, was
engraven into his memory.

Not until then, not until he was satisfied that as often
as he wished in the future he would be able to visualize
her so, did he turn his attention to the other two.

Soon he smiled. Even if he had not been previously
aware of the romance which had quickly budded in the
hearts of Cecile and his lieutenant, he could not have
remained unaware of it now. They were both so palpably
in love; both so absurdly young.

Even from the distance at which he was, decreasing
every second as they moved in his direction, he could
see the smile which lighted up their eyes as they turned
to one another, and the alert, eager glance which
hovered upon their faces whenever the other spoke,
eager to drink in every word.

They reached the edge of the woods; much further
and they might have come face to face with Wenzel;
but they turned in time. He let them get back to the
doorway, then he rounded his lips, and the next moment
the harsh cry of an owl floated through the air.

The effect on the trio was humorous. Terhune
stopped suddenly as he realized the significance of the
call, and Elizabeth and Cecile turned toward him in
surprise. Wenzel saw him listening, uncertain whether
he had heard aright; so he hooted again, and the next
moment saw and heard Terhune replying to him.

There had to be explanations; all at once the
expression on the faces of Terhune's companions turned
from bewilderment to blazing, joyful anticipation, and
he saw Elizabeth's lips speak three words, and, almost
as if the echo of them had floated to his ears, knew that
she had repeated: "The White Knight!"

Next, Terhune was emphatically shaking his head.
Wenzel's eyes twinkled—he knew well what they were
pleading: to speak to the White Knight, to see him—and
then, immediately, the twinkle disappeared; his
face hardened with an inward pain. Supposing they
did see him, supposing the gentle eyes of Elizabeth or
Cecile should look upon his ghastly features....

"Geoffrey! You here! I did not expect you. You
have brought some one else?"

Wenzel shook his head. "No. I have come for no
reason whatsoever. A whimsy! I was curious to know
for myself how every one is faring."

"Happily, or rather as happily as is possible. The
château is heaven to most of the present inhabitants.
After being robbed of everything they possessed, turned
out of their homes, and then, if they protested, hunted
high and low; some even now cannot understand what
it is to spend an easy night without fearing what the
morning will bring. Sometimes I wonder how it is that
we are overlooked. Still, if the devils should come"—his
voice became grimmer—"there is a rifle here
for every man, with some to spare, and ammunition in
plenty."

"Good! Any other news?"

"Francis Bakocz has been plaguing my life to ask
you to let him help us."

"Humph!" Wenzel pursed his lips and looked
toward the crumbling pile. "What do you think of
him? Would he be a good man or not? We could do
with some one else: matters are becoming worse and
worse in Budapest."

"He has enough courage for two, and if pushed to
it could act a part well. In my opinion he would have
only one fault. He would be inclined to be reckless."

"A bad failing, Arnold. Yet, all the same—I will
speak to him. Listen, friend! As I am here I would
like to talk to—to—one or two for a while, but, as
you know, there are—reasons why they must not set
eyes upon me. To-night, therefore, find me a room.
It must be pitch dark. There I will receive Francis
and Cecile Bakocz, Elizabeth Kiss, and perhaps her
father. Go in now, and prepare everything for me.
When you are ready, hoot, and I shall come."

Arnold returned to the château, a frown of
puzzlement creasing his forehead. To-day Wenzel was
different: hitherto he had taken no interest in the
people he had rescued; once they were safe in the
retreat they had passed from his mind, so that what
he had done for them might have been merely helping
them across a crowded street. Why, therefore, this
sudden interest in the refugees?

He was met at the door by Cecile.

"You have seen him?" The last word she uttered
in a soft whisper, breathing into it a subtle reverence.

Arnold nodded. "Yes," he replied abstractedly.

She clasped her hands together. "Oh! If he only
knew how much we all wish to meet him, to thank and
express our gratitude for all he has done for us."

"Perhaps he does!"

She turned swiftly round, so that she was directly
facing him. "You mean—he is coming—here, and soon?"

"To-night!"

"Oh! Oh!" Too full for words, Cecile could say
nothing. For days she had prayed for the opportunity
of speaking to the White Knight—to him who had
snatched her father from the very gates of death.
Now at last it seemed that she was to have the
opportunity.

"I—I shall see him then?"

Arnold hesitated. He realized that he was going to
have difficulty in explaining the situation.

"Yes and no," he muttered slowly. "You may be
able to speak to him, but not actually see him."

Two faint, twin lines betrayed themselves upon her
forehead. "Speak to him but not see him! I do not
understand!"

"No, mademoiselle, I did not expect you to do so.
The White Knight has instructed me to prepare a
pitch-dark room in which to receive you, and only in
that room will you meet him."

She shook her head doubtfully. "Yet still I do not
comprehend."

Arnold hesitated. "It is that no one shall recognize
him."

For the moment she still did not realize, then her
eyes filled with tears, and when she spoke reproach
and disappointment throbbingly disclosed themselves
in her voice. "He is afraid of being betrayed!
How could he think that, when there is not one of us
here who would not sooner die than expose him to the
Communists? Does he not trust us?"

"Mademoiselle, do not think that of him. Of
course he trusts you. Could he do otherwise?" Skilfully
he endeavoured to change the current of her
thoughts by the implied compliment, but the hurt
rankled in her heart.

"Then what other reason has he for taking such
precautions?"

"Why, plenty.... I—I mean, I do not know! I do
not question him!" Arnold floundered, and silently
cursed as he foresaw too well what her next words
would be.

"So he is not the only one who does not trust me,"
she replied coldly. "I am sorry, monsieur."

The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Trail of the White Knight,
by Bruce Graeme

"Mademoiselle!" Desperately he appealed to her.
"I did not mean that; you are twisting my words.
Why—I—I would lay down my life to serve you.
I—I——" He stopped suddenly as he realized that
his heart was overpowering his head, thoughts which
he supposed to be locked in the deepest recesses
of his being were forcing themselves to utterance.
"Mademoiselle, I must go at once," he muttered.

"Very well!" She shook her shoulders and turned
aside. With a despairing look at her he slowly moved
away, and so missed the bewitching smile which sprang
into her eyes as she watched him disappearing down the
passage.

# CHAPTER VIII

An unrelieved blackness settled over the countryside
before Arnold intimated to Wenzel that
everything was ready. Only from the mansion
itself was there any illumination, for, despite all possible
precautions, from two or three windows came the dull
gleam of candlelight. There were no curtains by which
the unfortunate refugees could conceal the light, so
overcoats, cloaks, and other articles of wearing apparel were
made to serve instead.

Wenzel proceeded toward the château until he was
near enough to glance in turn through several
peep-holes. The scene was anything but cheering, and
despite his hardened heart he could not help feeling
a tinge of pity for those inside.

The rooms within were bare of any semblance of
furniture or decoration other than what the occupiers
themselves had made. Naked walls grimly frowned
down upon bare floors, and in the general decay one
room was no better than the next. In the majority of
the bedrooms the only beds consisted of dried leaves
over which were flung ladies' petticoats as sheets, men's
overcoats as blankets.

Wenzel soon noted that the hands of the fairer sex
had not remained idle any more than those of the men.
Here and there were bunches of wild flowers, their
beautiful colours serving, in some cases, to help hide
some of the worst patches on the walls. Pieces of
fantastically shaped wood had been tied round with
pieces of ribbon, lace, or other trimmings, and these were
placed in positions where they could best ornament
the rooms.

In several cases the scene had been brightened by
cleverly executed charcoal drawings portrayed on the
walls, and here and there Wenzel glimpsed colours,
though how the artist had obtained them he could not
guess.

The men had apparently set to work with a will,
aided by what carpenter's tools Arnold had managed
to obtain for them, for there were crudely fashioned
chairs scattered about, or else uneven three-legged
stools. In one room was a rough table.

Somehow Wenzel was grotesquely reminded of the
Swiss Family Robinson, of Crusoe, and other similar tales
of boyhood days. As he looked in upon the château it
seemed to him as though the people inside might also
have been cast away on some desert island. To think
that they were in the centre of a supposedly civilized
continent....

Arnold was waiting for him by the door.

"Everyone is madly anxious to speak to you," he said.

"I can see only a few," Wenzel answered curtly.

He knew beforehand that he was going to be
embarrassed by their gratitude, and it annoyed him.
"Haven't you told them, Arnold," he continued
testily, "that I am doing all this purely for revenge, and
to have a chance of killing some of the Communist
brutes? Haven't you explained that their lives mean
nothing to me?"

Arnold grinned in the darkness. Perhaps he knew
his leader better than the White Knight knew himself.
"No, I haven't. I have left that for you to do.
However, who will you see first?"

"I think—Francis Bakocz! Now take me to the room."

To the White Knight came Francis.

"Monsieur," he said to Wenzel, "I want to become
one of your lieutenants."

"Lieutenants! Who told you I have assistants?"

Curtly the words were hurled at him through the
dark, and Francis started with surprise. The mysterious
White Knight's voice was hard and cruel.

"No one," he faltered; "but there is yourself,
and Monsieur Terhune, and I believed there might be
others."

"Why should you believe so?"

"I—I—— Monsieur, I do not understand you! I
imagined what I did because the escapes you arranged
were so wonderful, so marvellous. It seemed to me
that you must have many more to aid you. Do you not
want me to—to—speak thus?"

Wenzel laughed grimly. "I questioned you to discover
whether they were your ideas or some you might
have heard."

"They were my own," Francis said quickly. "No
one knows anything of you, though we often discuss
you when Monsieur Terhune is away," he admitted
frankly.

"And you think I am a supernatural being?"

"Almost, monsieur! My father, for instance!
When that hideous brute of a jailer was put to guard
him he gave up all hope. Only you, monsieur, could
have got the better of that monster."

There was a brief silence, broken eventually by
Wenzel: "You think so?"

"I am certain of it," replied Francis, with boyish
enthusiasm. "From what my father says of the jailer
the man must have been an ogre. Ugh! the very
description of him makes the ladies shudder." He
laughed slightly. "Father's description might be that
of the missing link. If ever he and I meet I shall kill
him for all he did to my father."

Again a silence, so long that Francis could not
maintain his composure. "Monsieur!" he said.

"Go, go!" Wenzel spoke in a muffled voice. "I
will let you know if you can help me. Only go now,
and tell Terhune to come to me in ten minutes' time."

The boy went, and Wenzel was left to thoughts which
seared and blistered. "The missing link!" He, who
had once been handsome, who could have once looked
at himself in the mirror, and been satisfied with its
reflection of healthy, youthful virility, now "an ogre"! Not
even could he pretend to himself that his ugliness
had been exaggerated in the Count's eyes by the
ghastly surrounding of the prison, the apparent cruelty
of the jailer. He was not blind; there were times when
he was himself appalled by the picture thrown at him
out of the looking-glass.

Yet the hurt of Francis' words, though they cut
deep into his sensibilities, did not compare with the
mental pain of his own thoughts. If a man thought
that of him, what would be a woman's feelings, how
much worse would be the reaction on the more fragile
ideals of a young girl?

A seething disgust of himself swept upward from his
heart; soon it seemed to him that such a monstrosity,
such a caricature of a man, ought not to live. Grimly
it occurred to him that one day he might be held up
as an example to bad children, the threat of becoming
like him being used as a means of inducing them to
yield to parental authority.

His thoughts became more self-accusative and
gruesome. When the door opened and some one entered
he cursed that he had not said half an hour to Francis
instead of ten minutes.

"Arnold! For God's sake leave me alone, man, for
another twenty minutes."

"Monsieur, it is not Arnold."

Wenzel sat perfectly still. The low, vibrant
intonation echoed the music of the voice which had
persistently rung in his ears the last few days.

"Mademoiselle! I did not expect you,"

'You know who it is then, monsieur?"

"You are Elizabeth Kiss."

She laughed softly. "You must be able to see in
the dark, monsieur. My eyes cannot pierce the veil
of blackness to observe even my hand, and yet you
recognize me!"

"It is not your face I recognize, mademoiselle, but
your voice."

"But you heard it for so short a time that—that
awful night."

"Yet I have not forgotten it. It reminded me of
some one I knew many years ago." A surging memory
of his last day with Zita carried him quickly back into
the past, but it hurt so that he forced himself to forget,
to think only of the present. "How came you here?
I was expecting Terhune."

"I know," she replied softly. "I overheard Francis
telling Monsieur Terhune. I was afraid that perhaps
you would refuse to see me, so I slipped in beforehand."

"You did wrong! Why did you?"

"Because I shall never rest with an easy conscience
until I have told you of the gratitude which is in my
heart for all that you have done for my father and for
me."

"Stop! Mademoiselle, believe me, I do not doubt
that gratitude for one minute, and if you wish to
express it you can do so in no better way than by
dropping the subject immediately and never renewing
it again."

"But, monsieur, it seems so—so callous, so cold, to
let it pass in that way. Yet, if you will not listen to all
I would like to say in regard to what you have done
personally for my father and me, will you at least let
me tell you of what you have done for the nation?

"For years my father has been engaged in a stupendous
literary task, that of writing up the personal history
of the Apostolic Kings of Hungary, and the evolution
of our race. He has nearly finished—a year, two years
may see his task completed. If he—he had died, the
history would have perished with him, for only he knows
where the work is hidden. Monsieur, do you not feel
proud that you have done this for the nation?"

He was deeply stirred by the story she told him.

"I am glad you have told me," he said simply.

Beneath the thrall of her presence it did not occur
to him then that the saving of the history, or ten
histories, should have meant nothing compared with
one human life, but at that moment he was conscious
only that she was speaking to him, and that slowly,
inexorably, he was beginning to fall in love with her.

This meeting only served to emphasize the attraction
for her which, almost against his will, had pulled him
to the château, away from Budapest. He wished he
could see her, watch her ever-changing expressions,
behold her again as he had beheld her outside the
château, and begrudged the cloak of darkness which
blacked out her marvellous eyes from his vision, the
eyes which, close to, he had seen covered by alabaster
eyelids.

"Mademoiselle, there is a chair just here. Will you
not come closer so that I can put you into it?" Even
to himself it was obvious that his voice was deeper,
more alive, and throbbing with an emotion he could
not control.

Elizabeth was conscious of the change, for she
hesitated. "I do not mind standing, monsieur."

"Come! I should feel more easy if you would sit." He
heard her move slightly, then his outstretched
hand came into contact with her arm. Gently he slid
his hand down to her wrist, and guided her to the
seat. He felt her quivering gently within his grasp,
and, aware of her lack of fear, his heart leaped when it
seemed to him that there could be but one reason for
her nervousness.

Reluctantly he withdrew his hand, and in doing so
experienced a sensation of chilling self-abnegation, and
forcibly realized that roseate-hued dreams were blinding
his sense of reality. The voice of conscience interpolated
its everlasting chant: to feel thus was disloyalty
to Zita; while revealed in a colder light the suggestion
that Elizabeth could reciprocate his sudden feelings in
so short a time became impossible.

His heart cried out in protest, so that when he next
spoke there was an unshed tear in his voice.

"Won't you tell me of yourself, mademoiselle?
Elizabeth Kiss! It is a pretty name."

"It is an old Hungarian name."

"It is prettier still in my language. You know it?"
he questioned.

She answered him in English. "A little. I learned
it many years ago when I was still at school."

The music of her voice seemed to echo and re-echo
in the quietness of the room. Never had his own
language sounded so exquisite. Behind each carefully
pronounced word whispered a faint suggestion of an
accent, liquid and sibilant, like the ripple of a pure
mountain rivulet. Each passing moment revealed to
him a new charm in her, and every new discovery
wrapped him deeper in the meshes of a growing
adoration.

"You speak it splendidly, mademoiselle. You must
continue to talk to me in English. You were telling
me of yourself."

"Was I?" She laughed softly. "There is so little
to tell you. Until the night you rescued us my life had
been uneventful, monsieur. I have lived all my life
at the Castle Gisella, except only during my schooldays,
or whenever my father journeyed to Berlin, Paris,
or London. Then he took me with him.

"I have been shut off from the world since 1914,
though I have been happy and content, except when
hearing of the wounds my unhappy country has suffered.
Not even of the Commune had my father and I heard
anything until a few minutes before we were invaded
by the villagers."

"You must suffer all the more then, now that your
eyes are open?"

"Indeed, yes. It has been terrible! Each day we
hear worse news, until it seems that the woes of Hungary
are unending." Suddenly she choked. "Yesterday I
received the worst information of all."

Wenzel frowned, wondering why he had not been informed
by Terhune of fresh facts. Then he remembered
that he had seen his lieutenant for a few minutes only.

"Yes, yes," he impatiently prompted her.

"Yesterday Monsieur Terhune arrived at the
château with a fresh visitor from Budapest——"

"Dregely?"

"Yes. Poor Gobor Dregely. He too has lost everything
like the rest of us. This morning he and I were
talking together of old times. He knew all my relations
in Budapest, and—and—oh, monsieur, he told me of
the murder in the streets of my cousin, Coloman.
Coloman and his friend were walking home one night;
they met a group of drunken Communists who
demanded of them to hack the royal crown from their
uniforms. Coloman refused and—and then—oh! it
seems impossible—one of the Communists snatched
a revolver from his pocket and shot down my cousin
and his friend." Her voice broke, and Wenzel heard
the sound of a stifled sob.

He breathed hoarsely. Suddenly all other feelings
were gone save those of blind, murderous hate. His
hands clenched till the nails of his fingers bit into the
flesh of his palm, but he felt nothing of the physical
pain, only an overpowering mental anguish at the
thought of the brutal murder. Always he felt thus
upon hearing fresh Communist horrors; this time it
was intensified by the fact that one of the victims was
Elizabeth's cousin.

"Dregely—knows he who was that Communist,
by any chance?" Fiercely he put the question to her,
not daring to hope that she would be able to reply in the
affirmative.

Her voice hardened: "Yes. Dregely was Coloman's
friend, and by some means found out. He wanted
revenge, but the Communist left Budapest."

"Yes, yes; but who was the murderer?"

"He was a People's Commissary, by name Comrade
Gonnard. When Dregely searched for him he heard
that Gonnard was touring the country, preaching on
behalf of the Commune for sanguinary measures against
the bourgeoisie. Dregely would have followed, but he
was proscribed an outlaw, and so had to flee himself
from the clutches of the Communists. Only now is
he safe, thanks to the White Knight."

"Yes, I heard of Dregely's danger, and sent Terhune
to help him. But this Comrade Gonnard"—his voice
boomed with fury—"for what he has done he will
have to settle with the White Knight. Do not worry,
mademoiselle; the White Knight will avenge your
cousin, I swear by the blood that Gonnard shed that
the Communist shall die if I have to follow him from
one end of Hungary to another!"

"Oh, monsieur!" She sighed. "I believe I am
gentle-natured, it hurts me to see a fly struggling to
escape the ruthless clutches of the spider, yet my heart
leaps with joy to hear you say that. If only I could be
of assistance to you!"

"Perhaps you can," he breathed softly.

"Tell me quickly," she said eagerly.

He had not meant to let the words slip out, they were
an echoing murmur from his heart, and now he felt
embarrassed, unable to think what to say. Once again
the battle between his desires and his sensitive
conscience waged fiercely. There was much he wished
to tell her, but all the time a mocking voice taunted
him on his forgetfulness. What was his love worth, it
asked, that he could forget Zita so soon? Less than
two months ago he had stood over her dead body and
vowed remorseless revenge, and yet already his heart
was stirring at the proximity of another woman!

With pitiless insistency the hammer-strokes of his
self-inflicted arguments flayed his soul till he writhed
in agony. He forced himself to thrust away the mental
pictures of Elizabeth which constantly depicted
themselves in his imagination, and hardened his voice in an
endeavour to deceive himself as well as her.

He had nearly led himself into a trap. There seemed
to him only one way out of it. "You can help me by
never mentioning a word to anyone that I am going
after Gonnard."

"Monsieur!" Reproach battled with anger in her
voice.

"I am sorry, but prattling tongues, even in this
château, can do inestimable damage. Already some
one, who, I do not know, has in his—or her—gratitude
kindly betrayed the fact to my enemies that I am
an Englishman. Whether by accident or design I
do not know. In any event, a word in English now
is sufficient to raise a horde of amateur and
professional trackers on the trail of the unfortunate
speaker."

Elizabeth bit her lip, and wished it were within her
power to understand her mysterious rescuer. In the
first place, from what little she had seen of him, he was
utterly unlike the evenly balanced, phlegmatic Englishmen
whom she had previously met. His moods changed
with the rapidity of a temperamental woman: he was
tender, fierce, calm, and tempestuous by turns. At one
moment his voice throbbed with sympathy, the next it
grated with bitter cynicism.

His lack of trust hurt her. The pitch-dark room!
She tried to persuade herself that there was some other
reason, but in vain. It could only be that he feared
to reveal his face even to her, in case of treachery. She
rose to her feet.

"I must go, monsieur. There are others who wish
to express their gratitude to you beside myself." With
an effort she kept her tone at an even level, concealing
the disappointment which she felt.

His thoughts were chaotic. He did not want her to
go so quickly—there were still many questions he
wished to put to her, anything to keep her near him;
but his lips seemed paralysed.

He was saved a final decision. The door opened and
Terhune's voice rang out:

"Geoffrey, I am sorry to interrupt, but Apor is here
with grave news."

Instantly his brain cleared. "Mademoiselle, you
will excuse me!"

Her lips twitched bitterly. There was a faint note
of pleasure in his voice. Evidently he was pleased to
get rid of her! "I will go at once," she said.

Terhune guided her to the door, and when he came
back Apor was with him.

"Shall I light up now? The window is well covered,"
asked Terhune.

"Yes, yes. I am tired of the gloom."

When the candle was alight Apor turned to Wenzel.

"My only hope was that you would be here, though
how I even guessed that you might be I do not know.
Telepathy, no doubt. How did you get here? There
is not a single train running."

"Walked here," Wenzel grunted.

Apor whistled in surprise, and gazed at his leader
with admiration in his eyes. "It must have been a
hard walk, Wenzel. For myself, I confiscated a motor-car
and left it in the woods three miles away. Wenzel,
if ever your help is needed, it is now, at once. The
Devil's let loose.

"Just after three to-day the news came through to
the Council that a counter-revolution had broken out
in Bira. There was an uproar. Szamuelly said that if
the Soviet were to reign supreme all counter-movements
must be squashed. For three hours he pleaded for a
free hand to take his Death Train to Bira to settle the
revolution his own way, but there were some there who
hesitated at the idea. In the end he won. I left at once
and searched Budapest for you or Terhune. I found
no trace, and something prompted me to try here.

"Wenzel, some time to-night the Death Train will
leave Budapest for Bira. If it ever gets there, God help
the poor devils! Szamuelly is a fiend incarnate.
Something must be done to stop him arriving. If we can but
delay him twenty-four—or even twelve—hours one of
us might get there in the meantime, break the movement
up, and get the ringleaders of it to flee for their
lives."

Wenzel nodded his head. "You are right, Apor.
How many miles is it to Bira from here?"

"Seventy."

"Good! Then give Arnold your car. Arnold, you
must go at once to Bira. Fortunately only to-day I
bought a map. Here it is. Drive like Hell! You
ought to be there at the very most in six hours. In the
meantime somehow or other we must delay the Death
Train."

"But how?" It was Apor who put the question.

Wenzel shrugged his shoulders. An eloquent
answer! There followed a silence while each of the
three men racked their brains in an effort to elucidate
the problem. The minutes ticked by. Then, suddenly,
Wenzel turned to Apor:

"The line which runs in the valley the other side
of the hill—is that the direction to Bira?" There
was hope in his voice.

Apor nodded. "Yes!" he said, but his expression
was puzzled.

Noticing it Wenzel laughed slightly. "Our course
is clear, Apor, but we must hurry. You and I have
work to do. While Arnold hurries to Bira we will
go down into the valley. There are plenty of tall trees
there."

"Well?" Still Apor did not understand.

"Don't you see?" explained Wenzel impatiently.
"Arnold has a saw. We will fell one of the trees and
drag it across the lines. It will be apt to stop any
train which comes along; the quicker it is travelling
the better havoc there will be."

There dawned in Apor's eyes a smile of triumph
which slowly travelled down to his mouth. "What a
wreck! If there arc not a few dead Lenin Boys
afterwards——" Suddenly he snarled: "The murderous
brutes! I hope to God it may kill every one of them
and smash the Death Train to pieces!"

Wenzel smiled cruelly. "Maybe it will, Apor.
Maybe it will. Now go, you, Arnold, to the car, and
on to Bira, and you, Apor, bring me that saw."

He chuckled as his two followers rapidly made their
exit from the room. Then he blew out the candle,
and moving to the window drew aside the overcoat
which covered it and gazed into the night. There was
no compunction in his heart for what he was about
to do—in fact, it was not of Szamuelly and the Death
Train of which he thought, but Gonnard, the murderer
of Elizabeth's cousin.

"And afterwards," he whispered to
himself—"afterwards.... Take heed, Comrade Gonnard, the
White Knight is on your track. May you sleep well
to-night! You have not many more nights left."

# CHAPTER IX

The darkness of the woods was overpowering.
When Wenzel ventured out, followed by Terhune
and Apor, he wondered how they were all
going to find their separate ways, but when he mentioned
this to Apor the Hungarian laughed.

"Do not worry. I shall be able to guide you to
the valley. As for Terhune," he turned to Arnold,
"keep that star immediately above that distant pine—the
one over there on the peak—always in the same
position, and you will find yourself right on the road.
Then walk to your left until you come to the car. Keep
straight on for two miles, when you will arrive at
cross-roads, take the right-hand road, and after that—well,
follow the map, and remember to take care of the petrol.
It will only just be sufficient, I am afraid."

They saw Terhune stumbling through the trees,
hands outstretched to warn him of impeding obstacles,
before they continued their own way. After he had
been following Apor for a short distance, it appeared
to Wenzel that the pseudo-Communist found his way
with uncanny ease.

When he said so Apor laughed. "You forget,
Wenzel, I was born in these parts, and in my younger
days there were no automobiles. We had to horseback
everywhere, and so became accustomed to making our
way about in the dark."

Soon they reached the summit. "The valley is
before us," Apor announced.

"How the Devil can you tell? Gad! it looks to me
as black as the nether regions. You must have cat's
eyes."

Apor laughed. "A result of upbringing. I cannot
really see, so that it is probably instinct which enables
me to move about so easily."

He led the way, Wenzel following close on his heels,
and for some minutes they proceeded downward into
the valley. Then Apor stopped.

"Can you hear anything?" he asked, in a puzzled voice.

Wenzel listened acutely, but caught no sound other
than the slight movement of trees, the rustle of scuttling
animals, and the grumbling chirrup of disturbed birds.

"What kind of a noise do you mean?"

Apor hesitated. "I scarcely know. More like a
distant hum."

Wenzel gazed into the darkness. He did not expect
to see anything, for he believed trees to be on either
side of him, but looking to his left he saw a small, red
reflection away in the far distance.

He caught Apor's arm in a pinching grasp. "Look!"

Together they watched the curious glow; almost
simultaneously they realized that it was becoming
larger, and then Wenzel too heard the echo of a faint,
whispering drone.

"What the Devil!..." exclaimed Apor.

The glow apparently increased—then they saw that
it was not actually growing larger, though this effect
was caused by the fact that the reflection was rapidly
approaching in their direction.

It was Wenzel who first grasped the truth. "Damn!
Oh, damn!" he exclaimed. "We are too late! It is
the Death Train!"

Apor could not contradict. It was too evident now.
White billowing masses of smoke, belched forth into
the air, were lit up and reddened by the reflection of
the roaring boiler-fire. Evidently it was approaching
at full speed, for the engine swung round a curve and
the watchers saw following a twinkling line of lights.
For a second only, then the coaches were hidden again
behind the smoke-clouds.

The effect was weird and unearthly. Swirling into
the air the smoke formed briefly into strange, phantomesque,
and terrifying shapes, which gave way instantly
as other puffs spread out and re-formed into other
ghoulish creations.

It might have been a burning chariot from Hell
furiously driving along toward them, fiendishly blazing
its defiance into the night: were it the Death Train,
with Szamuelly inside, then indeed was the description
all the more applicable.

Filled with despair, Wenzel watched the progress
of the train which meant the collapse of all his plans.
At the rate the locomotive was moving, Szamuelly
would have reached Bira and completed his massacre
long before Arnold arrived, and more Hungarian lives
would have been lost in a fruitless cause.

He groaned, and hearing him Apor sobbed slightly.
"Satan is with him. Szamuelly must have altered his
time-table. Wenzel, I can't look, I can't." He sank to
the ground and buried his face in his hands.

By now the Death Train was passing below them,
roaring onward, screeching and wailing like a lost soul
in agony. Four coaches there were, brilliantly lit; one
flashingly revealed a party of men, holding glasses in
their hands, toasting.

Then no more, just the tail-light, mockingly winking
its derision at Wenzel, ominously reminiscent of
blood—blood....

Fascinated, mentally stupefied, and partially mesmerized
by its malignant twinkle, Wenzel continued to
watch the red light, and wondered how soon it would
be before its circumference dwindled to a mere pin-prick,
thence to fade away as the train vanished round
the next curve.

It was receding from him, but as yet he could still
see it plainly. He waited, and the minutes ticked by.
Still it was visible, also the glow of the engine fire on
the smoke.

"It has gone?" There was a query in Apor's dull
voice.

"Not yet."

"Not yet! But surely...!" Apor scrambled to
his feet. Then he turned to Wenzel. "My God!
Don't you see, Wenzel? It has stopped!"

"Stopped!" So that was why he could still see
the wicked, red glare? "What does that mean, Apor?
Is there a station there?"

"Not for another five miles."

They stood, side by side, watching, and waiting
for the train to resume its journey, but presently they
noticed the clouds of smoke diminishing.

Wenzel stirred at last. "Apor, I am curious to
know why Szamuelly and his crew have stopped. How
far away do you imagine it to be?"

"It is hard to say. Perhaps a mile, perhaps more."

"Then guide me there. I am going to investigate."

Twenty-five minutes' journey brought them to the
slope of the hill just above where the train stood. Now
it was necessary to move with caution, for the quiet
night intensified sounds. They could even hear the
sound of voices where the Terror Boys argued together.

Wenzel caught hold of Apor, as the Hungarian
would have continued to advance, and whispered in his
ear: "I will go on alone, Apor; there is light enough
from the train to guide me."

The other man turned remonstratingly. "But,
Wenzel——"

Wenzel shook his head. "Waste no words, Apor.
I know full well what you would tell me. I understand
and sympathize. Yet you must curb your impatience.
If I should be recognized and escape no harm will be
done, but should you once be seen you could be of no
further use to me. One thing more before I go. If I
get killed Terhune will carry on my work. Give him
your allegiance, Apor, in the same spirit as you have
given it to me. You will?"

Too moved for words the Hungarian held out his
hand. Wenzel gripped it tightly, and knew he need
have no doubt of his follower. Then he bent low and
crept away through the trees toward the train.

He reached the fringe of the wood; before him the
Death Train snorted impatiently, radiating a brilliant
glow of light, and Wenzel was able to see for himself
the ghastly thing of which he had heard so much.

It consisted all together of the four coaches; the first
two he noticed to be first-class saloon cars, the last two
ordinary third-class. This fact he noted in a sweeping
glance which embraced the whole of the train; then
he turned his inspection upon the two Pullman cars, and
as he noted one detail after another it seemed to him
that his eyes must be playing him a freakish trick.

He blinked once or twice, but when he looked again
the picture remained unaltered, and slowly the realization
sank into his brain that what he saw was no fleeting
chimera, no fanciful dream, but stark, actual fact.

He had travelled in de luxe Pullmans of pre-War
days, and considered them the acme of comfort, yet they
were cheerless and commonplace compared with the
coach which Szamuelly had adopted as his home, and
in which he now lived permanently, surrounded by his
guard of wicked Terrorists.

All the regular furnishings of the car had been
stripped away; instead was substituted gorgeous
furniture, filched from the palaces of the King of
Hungary, or from the palatial town and country
residences of the magnates, from the castles of the
aristocrats, the châteaux of the ruling Magyars.

The walls were hung with exquisite tapestry, worked
long ages ago, and depicting the glories of Hungary's
past, the heroic deeds of Losonczy at Tenescar, of
Szondi at Dregel, Zrinyi at Szigetvar, and vaguely
Wenzel wondered how each thread, worked by dainty
fingers, must have twisted in shame and disgust, as
it hung there and witnessed other deeds, black and
bloody, blotting the later pages of Hungary's chivalrous
history!

Beautiful bevelled mirrors were displayed upon the
walls, and pure, deep glass glitteringly reflected the
fragile gilt Louis XVI furniture which stood everywhere,
its pink brocade dimly reminiscent of another
revolution, while lastly, in the centre of the first coach,
stood a delicate, feminine writing-table, its dainty
carving in harmony with the cushioned settle by its
side.

To Wenzel, gazing into the lighted saloon from the
shadows of the wood, it was as though he might have
been peeping from the dark, overcast present into the
brightness of the past. Not one adornment in the saloon
but had survived many decades, not one piece which
could not have breathed the fame of Deak or Kossuth.

Wenzel wrenched his gaze away. What of the
third-class compartments by which the train earned
its ghastly title? Therein travelled the unfortunate
prisoners of the Terrorists, therein the walls and floors
were bare of any ornament other than the rusty stains
of dried blood which covered them—the blood of the
murdered. Well was it named the Death Train!

There in the two end carriages countless executions
took place at the command of Szamuelly, who sat at
the fragile desk in the parlour-coach. At his word his
captives were butchered, and their bodies flung through
the windows, so that the railway tracks of Hungary
during the days of the Red Terror were littered with
naked corpses.

With a shuddering gasp, which even he could not
altogether restrain, Wenzel turned his attention to
the Terrorists themselves, who strolled along the down
track, glad of the opportunity to stretch their legs.

In a sense they were uniformed, not only in costume
but in face. Most of them wore Army service uniforms,
some with puttees, others wore their trousers loose, but
every one boasted the voluminous, heavy overcoat and
fatigue cap. It was their features where the similarity
was mostly to be glimpsed, not in actual likeness, but
in the same degenerate cast, in the same surly, lowering
glance, in the same cruel, tightened lips, and receding
forehead.

Only one stood out conspicuously. Wenzel had a
good view of him as he stood still, right in a path of
light. He was a Jew, of small stature, dressed in black,
with leggings. He was different. His hair, crinkly,
curled, was not shaven to the scalp like the majority of
the others. His forehead was high, and apparently
intellectual, his eyes open and fearless.

The lower part of his face was covered with a beard,
but it was carefully trimmed, and that, with his heavy
moustache, gave him a handsome appearance. Wenzel
would have believed him a prisoner of the brutes who
surrounded him, but, even as the White Knight was
watching, one of the Terrorists called to the Jew, and
the name he cried was "Kohn-Kerekes."

Kohn-Kerekes! Szamuelly's favourite hangman!
The man who once had an argument with Gustav Nick,
a freed murderer and Terrorist, as to whether it were
possible to hang two or three men within the space of
five minutes!

This, then, was the trainload of murderers who were
on their way to Bira to put down the counter-revolution.
Something seemed to tighten around Wenzel's heart
at the mere thought. Somehow he must delay them,
hold them back long enough for Arnold to get to Bira
and warn the rebels of Szamuelly's approach. Yet how?

The engine was left unguarded, the engine-driver
and his mate having joined their fellow-Terrorists.
Wenzel's eyes flared with suggestion. He knew nothing
of engines, yet he felt confident that if he could but work
his will on the levers, the handles, and all the different
controls, he was bound to do some damage or other.

He made up his mind to attempt the feat, but firstly
he realized that it would be necessary to cross the line
and approach the engine from the other side. As far
as he could see, all the Terrorists were on the down
track, some seated on the rails, some walking up and
down, so that, to judge from appearances, the farther
side was apparently unprotected.

He slunk farther back into the shadows of the trees,
then took a direction which would bring him well to
the front of the train, assuming that there he would
be less likely to be seen, by reason of being behind the
light cast by the engine boiler-fire.

When he had traversed the distance of a hundred
yards or so he considered that he had gone far enough,
and made his way toward the track again. Where the
trees finished to make way for the iron lines he paused,
ready for the crossing.

He peered into the gloom on each side of him, and
listened acutely for any suggestion of an approaching
Terrorist; but everything was calm and peaceful.

Doubling his tall bulk he moved cautiously forward,
and without a sound crossed the track into the belt of
wood the other side, and once there made his way back
again toward the train.

It was as he had suspected: all the men were congregated
on one side of the train, leaving the approach
on the other absolutely clear, though how long such a
state of things was likely to continue he did not know.
He realized that he must work at once or perhaps fail
to have another opportunity.

Poised ready for instant flight in the event of
discovery he advanced toward the train, step by step, and
at each stride his eyes flickered from side to side for
any sign of interruption.

On the other side of the coaches he heard the chatter
of their tongues and the crunching movement of their
feet as the Terrorists walked to and fro. By peering low
between the carriage wheels he could even see some of
them, and knew that, contrariwise, if one of them should
chance to look his way, discovery would be inevitable,
and all chance gone of delaying the Death Train.

In a man's way he prayed that he might reach his
destination. As he advanced and nothing happened he
began to believe that Fortune was playing into his hands.
At last! The steps to the driver's platform were before
him. He swung himself on to the engine with a lithe
movement, but even as he did so, a flashing glance
toward the end of the train made him aware that the
driver and the fireman were slowly strolling back to
their allotted places.

He could not retreat, for now he was cut off. He
could not go forward, for the dozens of Terrorists on
the down track. Swiftly he glanced around, for hide
himself he must. There was only one possible place:
on top of a coach.

He clambered silently up the tender, and then,
trusting to luck that he would not be seen, hoisted
himself on to the roof of the first coach, and on his
stomach wormed his way along. He was only just in
time, for even as he reached the shadows he saw the
driver and his assistant mount the engine platform.

Despite the precariousness of his situation he could
not help appreciating the humour of it. Undoubtedly,
of the many predicaments in which he had found himself
from time to time since his adoption of the role
of White Knight, the present one was the most curious
and unusual.

By lifting his head slightly he could see the Terrorists
below; so visible were they to him, indeed, that
he felt sure that he himself must naturally be equally
outstanding to anyone who should chance to look up,
until he reflected that he was above the radius of the
light.

Their voices rose clearly to him, and concentrating
on one couple, who seemed either to be nearer than the
others or talking more loudly, he was able to hear their
conversation.

"Three-quarters of an hour we have been here.
Why don't we get on instead of hanging about?" said one.

"Obviously Szamuelly wants to get to Bira just after
daybreak so that he can catch the White Revolution
in the act."

The questioner spat on the ground. "Good enough,
comrade; but as we are here why not let us go right
ahead? A man hangs as well in the dark. Alternatively,
we might as well have slept in Budapest. There are at
least women there."

"Use your brains, Kerner. If we should arrive in
Bira too early every one would be asleep, and if they
should wake up to see us standing in the station they
would speedily forget to be White and would don their
Red cockade again. Every one would be innocent, and
there would be no one to hang." The speaker laughed.

"Well, and could we not have stopped in Buda,
and have left there in time to arrive in Bira soon after
daybreak?"

"Perhaps Szamuelly thought we should not be too
willing to get up."

"Huh!" The first man grunted. "Maybe he was
right. Once I tumble into bed I prefer to stick there."

Wenzel did not listen any more—he had heard
sufficient. What need to draw attention to an enemy
in their midst by tampering with the engine when, if
the Terrorists below were to be believed, Szamuelly
was of his own accord delaying the train? He could
trust Arnold to do his work well. When Szamuelly
arrived he would find no one upon whom to wreak his
sanguinary vengeance.

There remained nothing else for him to do but to
make his escape from the present situation as quickly
as possible. Unfortunately he could not return as he
had come, the engine-driver effectively barred the way,
but he believed that he might creep along to the edge
of the coach, and slip down the space in between it and
the next one.

Still lying flat on his stomach, he moved gradually
away from the engine and nearer to his way of escape,
but as he looked around he began to realize that, just
as a rat confidently enters the inviting trap, only to
find his exit barred, so was he too in a somewhat
similar position.

The Terror Boys were restless. Groups of them sauntered
in every direction, many of them now encircled the
train in a regular promenade, and the White Knight,
as he felt the cold penetrating through his clothes, did
not need to conjecture the reason for their movements.

With the utmost care he wriggled into a position
from where, at the first favourable opportunity, he
would be able to slip down to the ground and scuttle
back into the wooded slopes again, and waited.

The minutes ticked by—minutes which began to
total into respectable fractions of an hour—but still
many of the Terror Boys kept up their unceasing tour.
Round and round they marched till the blood glowed
as redly as possible in their wan and dissolute faces,
and in the meantime the White Knight became more
and more chilled.

He longed to move, to circulate his freezing blood—to
do, in fact, what his enemies themselves were doing—but
it seemed that Fate, having once permitted him
to board the train, was set on keeping him there,
irresponsibly transferring her favour to the other side;
coquettishly flirting, now with him, the next moment
conspiring against him.

Once there was a lull. For some reason the Communists
suddenly assembled together in argument, and
as the group swelled, so one side of the train was left
to itself.

Wenzel tensed himself for his escape, but even as
he drew himself to the edge, preparatory to clambering
down to the buffers, the engine-driver alighted and
walked along, swinging his arms as he moved. By
the time the man was warm again the promenade had
recommenced and Wenzel's opportunity had gone.

Later the Terrorists began to climb back into the
train, and Wenzel's eyes glistened with anticipation;
but his hopes were very quickly shattered. Szamuelly,
with the cunning of a serpent, set two guards, one on
each side of the train.

So the night passed. Despite everything, his watch
and his discomfort, Wenzel fell into a fitful slumber—not
sleep in the actual sense of the word, but a restless
jerky doze from which he forced himself to awake every
few minutes until his head ached with the effort.

Without warning there was a grinding jerk. Wenzel
opened his eyes with a start. The train was moving;
with a sense of dismay he realized that eventually he
must have given way and actually slept. Now it was
too late to escape—he was being carried with the Death
Train to Bira.

The engine gathered speed and, with its added
velocity, rocked unsteadily from side to side. Then for
Wenzel began a nightmare of inconceivable hideousness.
He gripped hold of something—he never knew
what—and held to it with a tenacity which presently
became subconscious, but even so his body was turned,
rolled, and banged on the sloping roof.

The billowing clouds of smoke blew into his face
until his throat and nose were filled with cinders, and
he felt sick from the taste of the acrid fumes. Somehow
he repressed the burst of coughing which threatened
to seize him every second, but to do so he had to fill
his body with deep breaths which served to suck in
still further supplies of the smoke.

Fortunately there was enough wind from the east
to keep the smoke sufficiently away to enable him to
retain consciousness, but in doing so its scurrying rush
deadened his senses and numbed his limbs and bones.

Time ceased to be of consequence, he knew only
that he must hold tight if he wished to retain his life.
So, somehow, his fingers continued to grip, even when
his consciousness practically vanished.

The train pounded on, but except for a sensation of
unreality he was totally unaware of what else was
happening. From head to foot his body ached and pained.
Bruised all over from the buffeting of the train, frozen
by the cold, deafened by the shrieking of the wind,
blinded by the smoke-dust, he believed then that Hades
itself could not contain more suffering, and he groaned
slightly with the torture.

At last it was over. He felt the train slowing down,
and released one hand to free his eyes from their
covering of grime and dirt. During the journey the day had
dawned, and in the misty half-light he saw the name
of Bira written on the railway embankment in small,
white stones, and in the distance the station.

He knew that there was no time to be lost, so gathering
up what strength there was still left in his limbs he
climbed down to the buffers. Quietly and ominously
the train slid into the station and quiveringly halted;
the next moment Wenzel jumped to the ground,
crossed the lines, and was out of the station.

He dimly expected a hail, if not from the train, then
perhaps from the station, but he had not been noticed.
He breathed softly with relief, and looked round.

There was an ominous, brooding silence, and over
the neighbourhood in which he was there seemed to
hang a pall of oppression and apprehension. It was
whispered by the wind which sighed sullenly through
the telegraph wires; it was told by the Red flags hung
out at intervals, which flapped angrily with staccato
reports; it was suggested by the tightly shut windows
and doors.

Wenzel's face broke into a smile of gratification.
Evidently Arnold had done his work well. Not only
was there no one about, but so quickly had Bira turned
Red again at the news of the approach of Szamuelly
that nowhere could Wenzel catch a glimpse of white.
There was no work for Szamuelly's butcher hangmen
in Bira.

All this he noted in a quick, fleeting glance, for a
backward look at the train revealed to him that its
travellers were tumbling out in pell-mell haste. Wenzel
knew that he must hide quickly.

Before the front of the station was a wide square.
He knew if he doubled across it he might be seen.
Obviously it would be better to hide on the station
roof. He looked up and noted that the stone coping
formed a convenient ladder upward. A few seconds
later he was securely hidden, watching the movements
of the Terrorists below.

Szamuelly, carefully guarded by four or five men,
each of whom flourished a serviceable revolver, sauntered
toward the station, to halt scarcely a yard or so from
where Wenzel was hidden.

In quick, precise tones Szamuelly gave his orders,
and small parties of his men dispersed to different
parts of the town. In the meantime, while he waited
for their return, Szamuelly smoked a cigarette and
jested with his own special guard.

"Well, comrades, ready for your work, eh?"

One man grunted. "Everything looks strange.
Where is the White counter-revolution which we have
come to suppress, may I ask? There are Red flags by
the plenty, but I see no signs of the White cockade."

Szamuelly laughed grimly. "The revolutionaries
are skulking away. We will drag the rats from their
holes. When they stand before me, waiting for my
verdict, we shall soon see by their faces whether they
are loyalists or not. We will let go free all whose
faces go red—eh, friends?—and string up those who
go white at the sound of their sentence. Will that not
be judgment worthy of Solomon himself?"

Then the conversation drifted into more personal
channels. There was a woman in Budapest whom one
had seduced, and the tale was well worth the telling.
As the story progressed the laughter of the listeners
became incessant.

Presently the Terror Boys returned, group by group.

"Where are the prisoners?" Szamuelly asked, and
his voice grew harsher as he heard the same answer
from all quarters:

"There has been a mistake, comrade. Bira is Red.
There is no counter-revolutionary movement here. The
Red flag flies everywhere."

"Fools, dolts, idiots! Do you think we have come
all this way to go back again like a lot of lost sheep? If
we cannot track out the revolutionaries themselves then
we must find their supporters with whom to set an
example. When I leave here Bira will hesitate to tear the
Red flag down again. Go on, boys, fetch them out."

Then followed a ghastly scene, which Wenzel viewed
with indescribable horror. Filled with enthusiasm, the
Terror Boys crossed the station square and burst into
surrounding houses. Presently the air was filled with
the sounds of struggle; here and there the reverberating
echo of shots intermingled with the wailing of women,
the pleading of children. Half dressed, unkempt, and
dishevelled, the victims of the Terror Boys were hustled
across the square to the station, where they were lined
up before Szamuelly.

"Ho, you!" Szamuelly strode up to one of the
prisoners. "So you are one of the scum who saw fit
to try and overthrow our glorious cause, are you?"

"No, no, comrade, I swear I am not. I am a
loyal Communist. For God's sake, do not hang me!
My wife—she is giving birth to a child, even at
this minute. Mercy, mercy, for the love of Christ!
Mercy!"

The trembling wretch sank on his knees, the tears
ran down his cheeks. Szamuelly laughed.

"Is his face red or white, comrades?"

There was a roar of laughter from his followers,
and the verdict was unanimous: "White, Comrade
Szamuelly, white!"

"Then he hangs. Throw a rope over that tree
yonder."

Willing hands were found to obey the injunction.
In less than a minute a rope was thrown over a lower
branch, a running loop formed, and underneath it a
chair was placed.

To it the victim was dragged and forced up upon
the chair. The loop was adjusted round his neck.
Everything ready, Szamuelly crossed and stood in
front of the man. He took the cigarette from his
mouth, and suddenly placed its lighted end upon the
hapless victim's bare foot. The poor wretch howled
with pain, kicked backward, the chair fell over, and
the loop tightened....

There were seven other trees near by, and in less than
twenty minutes at every tree twisted and swayed a lifeless
body at the end of a rope. After that Szamuelly was
satisfied.

"Come along, comrades. Do you think Bira will
go White again?"

A hoarse growl of laughter arose. "Not if they are
wise."

So the Death Train steamed back to Budapest. Its
work was done. Bira would not go White again.
Innocent or guilty, eight victims hung warningly in
the station square.

Wenzel—as his body had been chilled with cold the
night before, so now his heart and his emotions were
frozen. He could not think coherently. Civilization!
What progress had it made in the hearts of these
people? They were more savage than the Turks their
forefathers had driven across the frontier centuries
before.

There was but one thought dominant in Wenzel's
mind then. After Gonnard, Szamuelly; after
Gonnard, known murderer of two good Hungarian men.
Szamuelly, the murderer of hundreds!

Szamuelly must die! Of the chaotic thoughts which
obsessed Wenzel that was the one dominant factor.
Szamuelly must die!

The Death Train disappeared in the distance, and
Wenzel watched it with eyes which gleamed with an
unbridled fury of hatred. Even the death of Elizabeth's
cousin was as nothing compared with this crime, but
there was his word—the word of the White Knight—given
to Elizabeth. Yet afterward... Szamuelly
must die!

# CHAPTER X

Thirty-three miles away from Budapest
is Aszod.

This town was almost as much a centre of
Communism as Budapest; its people took kindly to the
doctrine of upheaval, and so they hoisted a huge Red
flag, which flapped in the wind from above the reformatory,
while a similar flag above the station advertised
the politics of the town.

In the days which followed Wenzel's unexpected
trip to Bira, Szamuelly put down the railwaymen's
strike by the aid of a firm and bloody hand. With a
sullen, menacing growl they resumed work, but if to
all outward appearances they quickly forgot their new
woes, a dull resentment against a self-elected autocracy
smouldered in their hearts, ready to blaze whenever
the train to the torch of real freedom might be lit,
a sentiment not shared by the huge crowd which,
thronging the arrival platform, awaited the train
from Budapest which bore among its passengers a
commissary, come to address the people of Aszod.

As the commissary in question opened the carriage
door he was greeted by flourished handkerchiefs and a
rousing storm of cheers. It was Comrade Gonnard.

Short, fat, with an adipose face, an unshaven chin, the
ribbons, floating around his neck, of an enormous Red
cockade set in the lapel of his coat, he was typical of
the Communists who governed the country.

His grossness was no less pronounced than was
the evidence of low mentality and criminal tendencies,
betrayed by a receding chin, a shelving, narrow
forehead, and close, deep-set eyes; but this meant nothing
to the crowds who flocked to welcome him, to listen to
his bombastic eulogy, his crazy ranting.

The cheering having died down, he raised his hand,
and obtained immediate silence. Striking a flamboyant
attitude, he commenced his speech.

"Comrades," he bellowed, "fellow-proletarians, I
am here to-day on behalf of the People's Council, to
give you news of our satisfactory progress, to give you
an outline of our future programme.

"'A short time back our worthy comrade, Bela Kun,
on behalf of the Hungarian Soviet Republic, got into
wireless communication with Comrade Lenin, of the
Russian Soviet, and sent the following message to
him:

"'Last night the Hungarian Proletariat seized all
powers, established the Dictatorship of the Proletariat,
and greets you as leader of the International Proletariat.

"'The Social Democratic Party has adopted the
Communist point of view; the two parties have united.
We have named ourselves the Hungarian Socialist
Party. We ask for instructions in this matter. Bela
Kun is Commissary for Foreign Affairs. The
Hungarian Soviet offers the Russian Soviet a defensive
and offensive alliance. Fully armed, we turn against
all enemies of the Proletariat, and ask for information
concerning the military situation.'"

There was an outburst of cheering, to which Gonnard
smiled and smirked his acknowledgment. Presently,
when there was silence once again, he continued:

"Comrades, to this historical message of love and
goodwill to all fellow-proletarians there came a reply,
dictated by Lenin himself, who spoke as follows:

"'Lenin speaking. Hearty greetings to the
Hungarian Soviet's Proletarian Government, in particular
to Comrade Bela Kun. I have just communicated
your message to the Congress of the Communist Party
of Bolshevik Russia. Enormous enthusiasm; we will
send a report on the military situation as soon as
possible. A permanent wireless communication between
Budapest and Moscow is absolutely necessary. With
Communistic greetings, Lenin.'"

The cheering with which the speaker's first message
had been met was entirely eclipsed by the terrific roar
which went up as he read out Lenin's reply. Hats were
thrown into the air, Red flags were waved frantically,
and in the madness which ensued there was scarcely
one present who realized the shame of it; the dishonour
of the Hungarians, descendants of the fiercest fighters,
of the proudest aristocracy in Europe, appealing to a
foreign Government for instructions.

So insidiously can propaganda work, the propaganda
which had been secretly distributed in the Army, in
the Navy, and throughout the workshops of Hungary
for the past few months. The cankerous root is not
more harmful to the animal body, the death-watch
beetle does not rot the heart of wood so quickly, as
the propaganda of the gospel of Bolshevism putrefies
the common sense and saps the morality of a working
people.

"Comrades," shouted Gonnard once again, "well
may you cheer at such excellent news—Russia and
Hungary hand in hand. Together we will spread the
seed of Communism. Already England is ripe to hail
the Red banner, and German workmen are more than
willing to throw off the shackles of their capitalist
taskmasters. France but awaits the word, Italy seethes
with discontent. The workmen of the world await the
hour with eagerness, and will soon follow the glorious
example of Hungary by throwing off the heavy mantle
laid upon them by the bourgeoisie.

"Comrades, it is but a matter of time," he boasted.
"There is nothing, now, to stand in the way of
Proletarianism and the Commune."

From somewhere in the crowd a voice interrupted:

"What about the Enemy of the Commune? What
about the White Knight?"

There was silence, broken by a sudden growl from
the crowd. "Yes, what about the White Knight?"
cried one. "What is the People's Council going to do
about the Enemy of the Commune?" shouted another.

Gonnard, bewildered and perplexed by this sudden
turn to his oratory, gazed stupidly at the crowd, and
gave no reply.

"Speak louder. I cannot hear!" called some one
waggishly, and there was a hoarse roar of laughter.

"But I don't understand," Gonnard spluttered.
"What do you mean?—what are you talking about?—the
Enemy of the Commune?—the White Knight?—I
don't understand!"

"You are a fine People's Commissary! Never heard
of the Enemy of the Commune? Ho! there's a fine
comrade for you!" again some one from the crowd
called out.

Gonnard flushed a dull red. "Well, then," he cried
out angrily, "supposing you tell me."

"I'll tell you," called out the same voice again.
"There's a man in Aszod who calls himself the White
Knight, the Enemy of the Commune, who has vowed
the downfall of the Soviet, and the death of all the
proletariat who stand in his way."

"Bah!" answered Gonnard, "the bourgeois—are
you then frightened of a bourgeois, comrades?"

There was dead silence again. Gonnard laughed
harshly. "Cowards!" he cried, "cowards, all of you!
Frightened by some half-witted bourgeois who calls
himself by a strange name." He sneered, palpably.

"Ho, then, Comrade Gonnard," interrupted the
same voice again, "can you explain the death of
Comrade Fejer and Comrade Pauler? You may be
the next, my friend—or me."

The blood drained away from Gonnard's face. Evidently
this suggestion had not yet occurred to him, but
as the force of the man's remarks struck him he twisted
his head nervously from side to side, perhaps already
anticipating the death which he so richly deserved.

There was a taunting cry from several in the mob
who observed this fact. "Look," cried one or two,
"our People's Commissary turns white about the
gills!"

As the jeer sank home Gonnard heaved his heavy
form more upright. "Afraid, am I?" he shouted
nastily. "Well, then, if that's the case, I'll just show
you how far you are wrong. If any of you before me
knows of this so-called Enemy of the Commune you
can tell him from me that in less than a week I'll string
him up on the nearest tree I can find!"

At his words there was a dramatic interruption.

From one of the houses which overlooked the station
there was a hearty roar of laughter, and then to the ears
of Gonnard and the crowd which surrounded him came
the echo of a mocking voice.

"I accept your challenge, Comrade Gonnard. But
it is you who will swing, not I!"

* * * * * *

Comrade Gonnard, as befitted a People's Commissary
and a representative of the Workers' Council, took up
his headquarters at the château of Baron Szechenyi.

No formality about this. He, together with local
commissaries, merely marched up to the château, seized
it in the name of the Soviet Government, and informed
the Baroness that henceforward she and her family
would have to be content with three rooms. The rest
of the house was then thrown open to the proletariat,
and before nightfall the château was filled with the scum
of Aszod.

Before the next day had passed the whole place was
turned upside down, while everything of value had
disappeared, confiscated by any who cared to help
themselves, for was not the meaning of the Commune that
anything possessed by one belonged to all? "What is
yours is mine, what is mine is mine own," might have
been the motto of the Communist;
or—abbreviated—"Thine—mine."

Notwithstanding his doctrine, Gonnard took care
that the finest room in the house should be allocated
to himself, and, once settled down, he awaited the local
detective whom he had immediately put on the track
of the mysterious White Knight who had so publicly
and audaciously taken up his challenge.

Not at once had the crowd moved when the White
Knight announced himself. They were stupefied with
astonishment, and it was not until Gonnard, in a
paroxysm of temper, thrashed his arms about and
ordered his audience to chase the man that anyone
moved.

When at last a movement rippled through the crowd
there ensued a scene of confusion.

"Which house?" "Where?" "What was he
like?" were questions answered by "This house,"
"That house," "The one over in the corner," nearly
every house being mentioned in turn. Confused, the
mob sheepishly turned from side to side; while all
the time Gonnard profanely swore at them to chase
the interrupter, but no one moved until a young fellow
at the back led the way.

Three or four houses in turn were entered, searched,
and secretly looted, but there was no trace of the Enemy,
who had long since made himself scarce. As to his
description, so many had positively seen him and were
able to give reliable information that, collectively, he
might have been anything from a red-headed dwarf to
a fiery-eyed, black-bearded giant.

Gonnard's anger over, fear stepped into its place,
and, scarcely giving the people time to report their
failure, he summoned detectives and ordered them to
hunt down the "criminal" who had dared defy a
People's Commissary, even though he were an
ex-convict, released when Bela Kun opened wide the
prison gates to enrol recruits as Red adherents.

In the evening came Gunzi.

"Well," snapped Gonnard, "what news?"

The detective shrugged his shoulders. "None."

"None!" exploded the Commissary. "The Devil
take it, what are you men here for? No wonder the
bourgeoisie still walk around, unchecked. I thought
Aszod was loyal to the Commune. Are you all fools?"

The other man flushed. "Hold hard, comrade.
Don't be too easy with your words. 'Tis not so long
ago that you yourself were on the wrong side of cell
bars at Budapest. I do not forget faces quite so easily.
You had another name then. Let me see. It was for
desertion, and robbery with violence. You, my friend,
have reason to be thankful that the people are in power,
and not the aristocracy."

There was an awkward silence. Gonnard had not
realized that he might be recognized, though actually
this could make little difference to his position. He was
only one among many.

"I'm sorry, friend, if I spoke hastily," he mumbled
presently. "Now tell me more of this White Knight.
What is he? Who is he?"

Gunzi laughed. "The Devil himself, it would seem.
The first we heard of him here in Aszod was about a
week ago. One morning we found, pasted over the
official posters of the Soviet Government, slips of paper
bearing the words: 'Proletarians, beware. Nemesis is
on your track. The White Knight. An Enemy of the
Commune.'"

"Nemesis! Who is he? That's not a Hungarian
name," said Gonnard.

"I knew not, till I asked the schoolmaster, who
roared with laughter when I asked him." The
detective's eyes narrowed. "He is a bourgeois, that
schoolmaster. Him I will soon put into prison."

"But Nemesis?" prompted Gonnard.

"Oh, yes, Nemesis. He told me Nemesis was a
daughter of Nyx, a person who metes out punishment
to the unjust. Bah! They think to get the better of
good proletarians with their long words and foreign
names. Wait until I get my hands upon this woman,
Nemesis, or the White Knight either."

"What about Fejer and Pauler?"

Gunzi pursed his lips. "Ask me not, Gonnard. All
I know is that they were both found dead, and each had
in one of his pockets—a white knight!"

His sibilant voice lowered itself toward the finish of
the sentence, and Gonnard shivered. "It is you who
will hang, not I." Again in his ears rang the confident
challenge hurled at him across the heads of the populace.
Supposing he failed in his boast, and, worse, supposing
the Enemy of the Commune were successful! ...

Involuntarily his hand flew to his throat and he
loosened his shirt collar. It was rather too tight to
be pleasant. Gunzi's mouth slowly widened into a
grin.

There was a knock at the door. "Come in!" cried
Gonnard, and there entered a small boy of about eleven
years of age, dressed in clothes far too large for him,
which, judging from the cut and the material, had been
filched from one of the bourgeois residences.

"A letter for you, comrade," announced the newcomer,
his remark punctuated by an oath. The gamins
of Hungary spent a royal time during the Commune.
Released by order of the Soviet from all authority
whatsoever, of their parents or of their school-teachers, they
revelled in their freedom and made the most of their
opportunity.

Gonnard glared at the boy. "What do you mean,
son? A letter for me? Where from?"

The messenger grinned. "Don't get excited,
comrade. It's not from a lady. I was walking down the
Palyaudvar-utcza when a man came up to me and asked
me if I would like to earn ten crowns. 'Make it twenty
crowns,' I said to him, 'and I'm your man.' 'All
right,' he growled. 'See, here's a letter. Take it up to
Comrade Gonnard, who is living in the château of Baron
Szechenyi. He will be pleased to get it.' Then he
gave me this letter, and I immediately brought it along.
Give me a crown, comrade, and you can have it."

Gonnard scowled. "Son of a pig, hand it over." He
half rose from his seat, and the boy quickly tossed
it on to the table in front of him.

Clutching the envelope Gonnard slit it open with
his dirty thumb, and pulled out a folded piece of paper.
This he opened, and then, as he read, choked with
fury.

"My God," he called out hoarsely to the detective,
"read this!" With a livid face he held it out to Gunzi,
who perused it, his forehead lifting slightly in his
surprise:

Within a week you will hang, Comrade Gonnard, and so
the death of two honest Hungarian officers will be avenged.

THE WHITE KNIGHT

While Gunzi reread the message, studying the
handwriting, searching for the watermark of the paper, or
any other clue which might ultimately lead to the
disclosure of the mysterious White Knight, Gonnard cast
back his memory in retrospection.

It was one night some months before. Budapest
lay covered in a white mantle of snow, which happily
concealed the garbage and rubbish littering the streets.
He and two other Communists were straggling home.
Fortunately the streets were empty; people were afraid
to wander much those nights, for parties of ex-Russian
prisoners and numbers of ex-soldiers, disbanded but
not disarmed, roamed the countryside, shooting and
pillaging, even daring to enter the towns.

The three Communists wandered on, hazy with drink,
their revolvers spitting fire, which, in lieu of finding
human billets, broke lamp after lamp, window after
window.

They had nearly reached their quarter when round
the corner strode two officers of the demobilized
Hungarian Army, their uniforms still glistening with
the emblem of the royal crown.

The sight maddened the Communists, for the
majority of ex-soldiers, who for four years had, day in
and day out, pluckily withstood the forces of invading
hordes, who, indeed, had fought for this very emblem,
now would tremblingly hack it off at the command of a
few of their own countrymen.

Lining up, they stopped the two officers, and
hoarsely ordered them to strip, their revolvers pointing
with unpleasant directness at the stomachs of the
two men.

With a haughty motion of the chin the elder of the
two, disdaining the drunken men, stepped forward,
and would have passed, but Gonnard's pistol flashed,
and a crumpled body slumped to the ground, where it
was quickly accompanied by the corpse of the second
officer. Thus died two who escaped the bayonets of
Hungary's enemies to die of the bullets of Hungary's
men—the red of their blood gradually dyed the pure
white of the snow—the insignia of the Crown blemished
by the symbol of Communism.

Like a wraith he saw again the haughty officer
falling—falling toward him; the accusing eyes
approaching nearer, the outstretched hands grasping for
his throat....

He called out chokingly, and the ghost dissolved
into the smoke of a cigarette which the placid urchin
of the streets blew out of his mouth in thick clouds.

Gonnard's dazed glance wandered from side to side—from
the face of the grinning messenger to the puzzled
countenance of the detective. How came this spectre
from the past? How knew the White Knight that he
was the murderer?

"Well?" asked Gunzi inquiringly.

"Nothing—nothing," muttered Gonnard. "I want
to know about that note."

The detective turned it over and over in his fingers.
"No clue of any kind." He turned to the boy. "What
was the man like who gave you this? Can you describe
him?"

"Yes, of course," answered the urchin, and Gonnard
and Gunzi leaned forward, a gleam of hope lighting
up their faces. "He was tall, though not too tall, say
about—about as high as my father, who is bigger than
either of you, comrades. His eyes were a greeny blue,
or perhaps brown, I forget now. His hair was a darkish
brown, nearly black in parts, and he was dressed as
you, not quite so well as I."

Gonnard groaned. The explanation might fit anyone
in the world. "Get out!" he shouted. The boy
turned tail and ran, wondering what had happened.

Gunzi grinned. "Not of very much assistance,
comrade. Apparently the Devil is not as conspicuous
as I had believed."

Gonnard turned upon the detective with an ugly
snarl. "Cease your prattling, Gunzi. This is no
laughing matter." His eyes narrowed into mere slits,
and he leaned forward in the other's direction, gazing
fiercely at him. "Listen, my friend. It is written that
the past is past. I am a People's Commissary now, and
have the ear of Bela Kun. It will be a bad day for you,
Gunzi, if by next week you have not laid this cursed
bourgeois by the heels. This day week some one is going
to hang, and if it is not the White Knight—comrade,
you have a nice soft neck. It would be a pity to see its
tender skin black and blue, rasped and bruised by a
rope. Do you think it within the bounds of possibility
that you might bring this dog to me—soon?"

His bombast did not worry the rat-faced Gunzi.
He shrugged his shoulders. "To-day week should
be an interesting one. Yet it will not be I who will
hang—and it might not be the White Knight, friend."

With that he strolled from the room and left the
ex-convict and murderer alone with his thoughts.

# CHAPTER XI

Comrade Gonnard spent an unpleasant
night. At supper he both dined and wined in
unwise manner, so that no sooner had he
laid his head upon the pillow than he became conscious
of the fact. Whatever his feelings awake, they were
mild compared to the succession of nightmares which
visited him asleep. It was an ill-tempered and uneasy
comrade who arose at a late hour next morning.

He drank his coffee with a gulp, and opened his
newspaper. There was a note pinned to the front page:

Still six days, Comrade Gonnard.

THE WHITE KNIGHT

His face whitened to a chalky pallor; he gazed at
the warning with dilated eyes.

For the rest of the day his mind dwelt upon matters
which were of anything but a pleasant nature. At every
step he winced perceptibly and kept an uneasy eye upon
the door and the window. Though he had been warned
that there were still six more days for him to live, he
was convinced in his own mind that the White Knight
was bluffing, that the blow might be struck at any
moment.

The day passed, and, despite his experience of the
night before, Gonnard again indulged in a heavy meal.
The consequence was that his dreams were even worse;
his fears, in conjunction with his groaning stomach,
wreaked havoc with his inner consciousness. As the
night passed, the vision of the White Knight appeared
more frequently, and in different guises, each one of
which was more terrible than the last. When he was
awakened by the welcome sunlight, which came streaming
in through a crack in the shutters, he found himself
in a sweat which poured off his forehead and down his
body.

A newspaper, brought in to him with his breakfast
by a friendly Communist, lay on the table alongside
his coffee. With trembling fingers he unfolded it, and
gasped with relief to find that this time its creases hid
no terrifying message. He almost enjoyed his breakfast.

Then arrived the post. There was a letter for him;
the writing was feminine; there was a faint, lingering
suspicion of perfume. A letter to him from a woman!
His eyes glistened with anticipation. He inserted his
bulgy forefinger and hastily slit open the envelope.

It was no billet-doux; only once again the fatal
warning:

Five days more, Comrade Gonnard.

THE WHITE KNIGHT

The words faded away in the misty film which
covered his eyes, and his shaking fingers dropped the
letter so that it fluttered to the floor.

The days passed. Each morning he received another
revised message—by telegram, by telephone, once again
by the post, and then, on the last day, by Gunzi.

The detective looked tired and haggard. For six
days he had scarcely slept; clue after clue he had
followed in vain. The White Knight was more elusive
than the fata Morgana.

When he saw Gonnard he stopped short in surprise
and swore, and Gonnard, seeing him, clutched his arm
frantically:

"You have found him, Gunzi?"

"No."

The word was like a death-knell; Gonnard sank
back into a chair, shaking in every limb, and Gunzi
eyed him scornfully. He had not seen the commissary
for five days, but in that time the once gross and fleshy
Communist had shrunk till the skin hung from him
in pouches.

His flickering, restless eyes unceasingly switched
from one direction to another, his drumming fingers
everlastingly beat a tattoo upon the object nearest to
them. His clothes positively hung from him and were
buttoned only here and there; his boots were not even
laced.

Gunzi stared at the wreck of a man and could scarcely
believe him to be the same as the bombastic
commissary who had arrived the week before to teach the
people of Aszod the benefits of the Commune.

"Oh, God! Oh, God!" Gonnard whispered. "Gunzi,
you must find him or he will kill me. His messages
haunt me wherever I go. I have not dared to go out
for the last three days lest I should be stabbed, or shot
in the back, or crushed by a passing automobile." His
voice rose to a shriek. "For God's sake, Gunzi, tell
me you know where the White Knight is hiding, that
you will arrest him to-day, at once, and save my life!
You do know where he is, don't you?"

Gunzi turned away: "No, comrade, I do not."

Gonnard gazed at him incredulously, his head
unconsciously wagging from side to side. "You don't?
But ... but you are ... are a detective."

Gunzi shrugged his shoulders. "Nevertheless,
friend, I have searched Aszod from end to end, I who
know it so well, but I have not traced the White Knight.
There is not a building I have not visited, not a single
source of supply which I have not tapped, yet in vain.
How can I describe him? No one knows what he is
like."

"The telegram he sent me! I forwarded it on to you."

"I got some sort of description—enough, in fact,
for me to track the sender."

"What!" Gonnard sat up. At the sudden suggestion
of a possible success on Gunzi's part a remnant
of his courage returned, and hope gleamed from his
eyes. "You have tracked him? You arrested him?"

The detective smiled grimly. "Of course I did.
He is in prison now."

Gonnard looked bewildered. "Then ... why...
Surely I ... I am safe...."

"You jump to conclusions too hastily. The sender
of the telegram was not the White Knight, friend. He
was paid by the White Knight to send the telegram to
you."

"Then ... then he must have seen the White Knight?"

"'Tall, though not very tall, about so high, perhaps
a trifle bigger. His eyes were brown, or blue, they
might have been either. His hair was inclined to blond,
and he was dressed like any other man.' That was his
description!" Gunzi jeered. "I left him in prison. The
change may improve his memory. In the meantime
I have a message for you."

Never suspecting what was coming, Gonnard was but
mildly curious. His head was too full of other thoughts.
"Well?"

"I was on my way to you, comrade. There was a
meeting near the station. I stopped for a short time to
listen. When it was all over a crowd of us moved away.
Some one touched me on the shoulder and whispered
in my ear: 'Tell Comrade Gonnard, to-morrow.' I
looked round, but ... he might have been one of a
dozen."

The commissary's mouth worked spasmodically.
He endeavoured to speak, but his tongue was paralysed.
His twitching nerves betrayed the panic which
embraced him, and his head drooped.

"Cheer up, friend; do not let your fears get the
better of you. Surround yourself with a few of the
Red guards; you must have a pocketful of crowns
else you cannot be much of a commissary. Grease a few
palms. The White Knight is only a man after all."

Gonnard looked up. "Gunzi, I am afraid," he
whispered hoarsely.

The detective shrugged his shoulders. "Then you
had better do as I suggest as soon as you can.
Meanwhile ... I think I will go and see our friend who
sent the telegram."

Gonnard, shivering with apprehension, watched the
detective depart. Gunzi had failed, the White Knight
was at liberty. He clutched his throat with his hands.
He seemed to feel the rasp of the rope.

"Oh, Father in Heaven! Oh, Holy Mary!" Again
and again he breathed aloud these words. Life was so
precious, so dear to him, and to-morrow he might die,
hang as he had seen a man hanged scarcely a month
back when Szamuelly had sat in judgment at one of the
wayside stations.

Clearly and concisely, as though he were at a cinema
watching the unfolding of a photographic drama, he
remembered the horror depicted on the man's face as he
was marched toward the gallows. Vividly he recollected
the sudden jerk, the body stiffening.... "Save me,
our Father, save me!" he wailed, his uneducated
mentality incapable of varying his conjurations. "Oh;
God, save me!"

The curtain at the window stirred slightly. With a
sudden jerk which set his heart tumbling and beating
Gonnard turned his fear-shot eyes in that direction.
He saw it was but a sudden puff of wind, but it might
have been the White Knight, and at the mere idea he
whimpered to himself.

Well had Wenzel summed up the character of the
Communist. As reparation for the death of Coloman,
Gonnard was suffering the tortures of the damned.
Conscience and cowardice were taking their toll of the
man.

Somewhere in the streets a clock chimed, and Gonnard
started. Eleven o'clock. Another thirteen hours
and the morrow would arrive and then ... He crouched
back into the chair, his hands warding off an invisible
horror. To-morrow the White Knight would come for
him and he would hang ... hang....

Mentally unhinged by the White Knight's repeated
warnings, it never occurred to Gonnard that, as Gunzi
had suggested, he might easily have surrounded
himself by wily guards who would have been more than
sufficient to protect the commissary against the
cunning of the White Knight. Yet, with an uncanny
insight, Wenzel had foreseen the consequences of his
melodramatic policy.

It was not from bravado, or a leaning toward the
theatrical, that Wenzel sent the warning messages
to Gonnard. He wished to create the impression of
omnipotence, to hypnotize his victim into positive
belief in the powers of the White Knight. Then he
had intended to play a similar trick to the one he had
perpetrated in Budapest when he had rescued the Count
Bakocz.

He had played his cards well, but, as he was to
discover, he had not under- but over-estimated the courage
of his opponent. Gunzi's message destroyed the last
remnants of Gonnard's courage.

That the White Knight could touch the shoulder of
the detective who was searching for him, actually speak
into his ear, and yet get safely away, hinted to Gonnard
of the supernatural.

Vague imaginings disturbed him. Anything was
preferable to his present misery—even death.
Supposing—merely supposing—he hanged himself. The
White Knight would be cheated, he himself peaceful
and content at last.

The idea haunted him, and he laughed suddenly
at the picture of the White Knight's face. Perhaps
it was the sound of his own insensate mirth which
brought him to his senses; when he realized the
thoughts which had been passing through his mind
he shuddered, and once again his everlasting prayer to
God left his lips.

His terror increased when, after what seemed but
a few minutes, seconds almost, a near-by clock struck
the hour of midday. Another hour gone by—another
hour nearer his death!

Something snapped in his brain. He must run,
leave Aszod behind him, get to Budapest. Bela Kun
would protect him, Bela Kun would see that the White
Knight did not carry out his threat.

Just as he had arisen from his bed, dirty and
unshaven, he scurried from the château. Without hat or
coat he gained the streets, and blindly fled from a
horror which, in his own conscience, pursued him even
through the streets, and all the time he seemed to see,
some distance behind, a vague, terrifying creature which
mocked and gibed at him, yet which always kept apace.

There was no train to Budapest for hours. So said
the porter as he spat on the ground.

The pursuing phantom laughed and gibed when
Gonnard glanced behind, and the commissary's
trembling knees felt weaker. Somehow or other he must
get to Budapest! Bela Kun would save him!

There was a motor-car outside the station. Its engine
groaned and snorted, wasting away confiscated petrol.
Once it had belonged to the Thokoly family, but that
was before the Revolution. Since then the local
commissary had commandeered it. At the moment its
present owner was purchasing tobacco.

The loud clamour of its carbonized cylinders attracted
the attention of another commissary. To Gonnard it
seemed to say: "To Bud-a-pest ... to Bud-a-pest."

What matter to whom it belonged? It was a way
of escape from Aszod, a method of transportation to
Budapest. For the first time for a week a watery smile
parted his lips, and the next moment he had stepped
into the driver's seat, let out the clutch, and was noisily
traversing the empty streets.

The houses thinned out, the intervals between them
became larger, and soon he was in the country. Of
the direction in which he was travelling he had not the
remotest idea, all he knew was that Aszod and the
White Knight were being left behind.

At last he dared to look behind him. For a moment
he believed the road to be clear, but when he glanced
to his side there was the haunting, visionary avenger,
keeping apace, laughing derisively....

"Keep away! Holy Mary, keep him away!" he
shrieked, and pressed his foot still harder on the
accelerator, and the automobile shot forward. In vain!
With incessant, terrified glances he realized that the
shapeless form, the chimera of his guilty fear, was
joined by two other wraiths, which fell ... and fell
... even as had fallen two Hungarian officers.

The car flew on along the rutted roads. The rusted
speedometer ticked away mile after mile, but Gonnard
drove blindly forward. What matter which direction
he took? Behind him the vengeance of the White
Knight. If once he stopped he might hang....

For hours the car with its solitary passenger careered
on unchecked, taking first this road, then that; its
bonnet pointing now to the east, now to the west.

The hour might have been five, six, or seven o'clock.
Gonnard knew not. The passage of miles meant more
to him than the passing time. Moreover, he felt somewhat
easier. The last time he had looked he had failed
to see the two officers. They had disappeared, left
behind, while the White Knight had seemed to be flagging.

He wanted to look again, but dared not, lest he
should discover that they were back. The urge
continued, and slowly his glance slipped round to his side,
then to his back, and his heart seemed to bubble over
with unexpected relief. The White Knight was gone
too, he had outstripped his avenger. He was safe
... safe ... safe!

He patted and fondled the car with a loving air, and
with his fears dissolving common sense stepped in,
making him realize that he must find his way to Budapest
before dark, the darkness of which he was still afraid.

He passed through one or two villages. He did
not recognize them, but when he slowed down and
inquired his way of the inhabitants they jerked their
thumbs forward with a surly air. Rumours were in the
air; hangings had been more frequent; and latterly they
were not quite so sure in their own minds that the dictum
of Budapest was all that it was represented to be.

Conscious of an easier mind than he had possessed
for the last week, Gonnard gradually turned his thoughts
into more pleasant channels than that of the death he
believed he had barely escaped. Once he arrived in
Budapest he meant to make up for the past week.

Firstly he would put himself under the protection
of Bela Kun. Then afterward, perhaps a good meal,
and the company of a charming woman, whose lips
would not be too backward.... In the days of the
Revolution there were many such. There were mothers
to be kept alive, or younger brothers and sisters. They
had to be fed.... The saddest sights of Budapest
during the days of the Red Terror were the women
whose gentle, innocent souls were besmirched and
befouled so that others might subsist.

The road was inclining upward; in the distance was
a group of hills which Gonnard seemed to recognize.
Soon he was sure. They were the hills of Budapest.
He would soon reach the city now.

Soon—soon—soon; the purring of the wheels on
the road sang the refrain. Despite its age the car took
the gradient well, and mounted higher into the hills.

Here the forestry encroached on the cultivated land:
or, perhaps more correctly, cultivation ceased to invade
the forest. There was a sweet smell of dewy vegetation
in the air, the scent of pine and herbs.

The last remnant of fear faded from Gonnard's
mind, routed by the thought of what lay before him
in Budapest. He sucked in his lips appreciatively,
already enjoying in anticipation that which would be
reality within a few hours.

Should he pick a fair or a dark woman; one inclined
to plumpness or——? There was a staccato report, a
slackening in the speed of the car, and an unpleasant
grinding sound.

Gonnard swore, and now that his courage had
returned it was the Devil he invoked. A puncture!
He applied the brake, shut off the engine, and the car
glided to a standstill. The commissary jumped out;
then, not without a frightened glance to the rear to
make quite sure the White Knight was still not to be
seen, he inspected the tyre.

It was perfectly flat, the cause of the trouble obvious,
for not far from the valve a large nail was embedded in
the outer cover. There was only one thing to be done.
Gonnard cursed, and with smouldering fury in his
heart hastened to look under the seat for the necessary
repair appliances.

Fortunately everything needful was in its proper
place, so stripping off his coat he set to work. In
twenty minutes the repair was completed, and as he
let down the jack he spat on the road, a mark of relief.

It was at that moment he became conscious of a
sound to his right. He spun round, his body slumping
into a crouching position, his eyes gleaming with
terror. He waved his hands weakly to ward off the
coming horror, but as the sound continued his
appearance changed. From fear, his expression changed to
puzzlement, then gradually broadened into cunning
amusement and bestial anticipation. The sound which
had arrested him was that of a woman singing.

A woman! His thick, sensuous tongue licked his
dry lips caressingly. Had not his thoughts dwelt for
the last half-hour or so on women? Now, suddenly,
there was one within less than a hundred yards from
him, and by the sound of her voice she was young.
To the commissary it seemed Fate had sent her. If she
were alone...

Stealthily he crept into the forest, and made his way
in the direction from which floated the clear, low notes
of the singer. Carefully he threaded his way through
the trees, and with every footstep he took his thoughts
became baser and more beastly.

He halted behind a near-by tree, where he remained,
as he became assured that the woman was approaching.
He did not have to wait long. From out of the tangle
of greenery a vague form materialized, until at last, as
she emerged from behind a large shrub, she became
fully revealed to the lustful eyes of the Communist.

He sucked in his breath with a slight gasp, and his
eyes gleamed still more brightly with the flare of his
aroused passion. The gods were kind! Never before
had he seen a more beautiful woman, a more delicate
shape, nor so divine a form. Even his wildest dreams
were surpassed by the reality.

She had been picking flowers; her arms were filled with
beautiful forest blossoms, piled up in cascades until they
reached her chin, framing the fascinating face above.

Gonnard grinned mirthlessly. She was the fairest
flower—a few yards more and she would be in his arms...

He remained motionless: the woman passed by.
Rapidly he stepped behind her, and catching her
wrists wrenched them apart. The wild flowers of the
forest dropped mutely to the mossy carpet beneath.

Mentally stunned by the shock Elizabeth did not
even attempt to struggle. The next moment Gonnard
gagged her mouth with one filthy handkerchief, and tied
her arms behind her with another. Then he lifted her in
his arms, and leering into her face grinned derisively at
her blazing eyes. He turned back to the car again.

Now what of the White Knight! His fears were
gone, there were better thoughts to occupy his mind.
Indeed the gods were kind! He cranked up the engine,
and swung into the driver's seat. It would not be long
before they arrived in Budapest, and then... He
chuckled to himself as the car started forward.

# CHAPTER XII

In the meanwhile, back in Aszod, Wenzel awaited
the hour of eight, when the plans which he had
laid so carefully should commence to fructify. He
knew that Gunzi was searching the city for him; at
times he had shadowed the detective to assure himself
that the other was not too warm on the scent.

Cunningly he had arranged that Gunzi should track
him soon after eight, and for that purpose had left
behind a host of clues. When the plans materialized
Gunzi would learn of the whereabouts of the White
Knight. He would arrive just too late. Alarmed by
the closeness of the detective the White Knight would
have fled.

Gunzi, he knew, would hurry back to Gonnard.
What would be the reaction? The White Knight
had not set Francis Bakocz to study the habits of the
commissary before Gonnard moved on to Aszod and
remained unaware that he would turn to wine and
women.

In the days of the Revolution English money meant
much. With the crown falling and falling a few Treasury
notes would buy a man's soul, and would still more
encourage a woman, who already hated the Communists
for all they had done to her young sister, to listen with
a willing ear to Wenzel's suggestions.

A rendezvous—a pretty woman—potent wine—and
in the middle of the supper—retribution.

It was a pretty scheme and there were no loopholes.
Even if Gonnard should fail to fall into the baited trap
he was prepared with an alternative—but the White
Knight was confident of his man. At seven o'clock
Arnold would arrive. Wenzel glanced at his watch; just
four-fifteen, and therefore time to set his plans in motion.

He lounged out of the room he had confiscated
together with several Reds in the name of the Commune.
Downstairs one of his fellow-proletarians was
just entering.

"What, going out? You are a queer fellow,
comrade—different from the rest of us. We sleep all day, and
at night..." He grinned. "Well, I could take you
to several little haunts, my friend. Why don't you join
us? I know a pretty blonde; her lips are redder than
a ripened cherry, and warmer than the hot springs of
Margaret Island. She would bring life into those dull
eyes of yours, and set your blood racing."

"Women!" Wenzel shrugged his shoulders.
"What do I want of women? I have had a surfeit of
them until I am tired of their monotonous caresses."

The other looked at him enviously. "You are a
lucky fellow. A case of beauty and the beast, eh?"

Wenzel turned upon him, and the Communist saw
that in his eyes which made him feel afraid. "All
right, comrade," he added hastily; "I was only joking,
of course."

Wenzel growled, "Keep your jests to yourself,
friend, for sometimes they are like curses and
chickens—and come home to roost," then turning away he
lounged out.

For some time he walked heedlessly. "Beauty and
the beast!" So hideous was he that even his own sex
were conscious of the fact! For the first me he
wondered what Arnold thought of him. Did he too
see his leader in the same light?

Remorselessly he forced the trend of his thoughts
into other directions. He knew from past experience
the after-effect of too much communing with himself
on that subject, for the bitterness of his thoughts ate
into his soul, and the world became a black place—too
black, for was there not supposed to be a better
one elsewhere?

He saw a train steaming into the station from
Budapest, and, more to keep his thoughts occupied
than for any other reason, he joined the throng of idle
sightseers who lounged near the entrance watching
the exit of the passengers.

The people streamed through; some hesitatingly,
pausing outside to look around and find their different
ways; others, with a contempt bred of familiarity,
dispersed quickly and decisively along the adjacent
streets.

Suddenly Wenzel stiffened, and frowned slightly.
Arnold was supposed to arrive by a later train, yet
he was even now jostling his way through a party who
clustered round a newsboy.

Not seeing Wenzel, Arnold would have passed on,
but the White Knight stepped forward.

"Hullo, comrade!" he cried loudly. "So you are
back again? How go things in Budapest?"

"Well, my friend; well." Arnold's expression
never altered. "Our troops beat back the enemy in
every direction, and the People's Government becomes
stronger and more fully recognized every day. It is
said that the Allies have expressed a desire to treat
with our great leader, Bela Kun."

"Excellent, excellent! Come, Stephen, I will see
you home. You shall tell me more."

They moved on, talking evenly until the people
thinned out.

"One of Gunzi's men was near by," explained
Wenzel. "But now, why come you by an earlier
train?"

Arnold's face clouded over. "Bad news, Wenzel;
bad news. Apor was caught corresponding with the
Whites and has been arrested."

Wenzel's face turned pale with passion. "The fool,
the fool! Why did he? Did I not give him strict
injunctions to serve me alone? Now, not only must he
suffer for his folly, but you, I, and others of his own
people, as well. My eyes and ears cut off from me,
my plans prejudiced: if he dies it is no more than
he deserves."

"He will die, Wenzel." There was a quiet
suggestion in Arnold's voice which Wenzel did not fail
to perceive.

"You are right, Arnold. Korvin-Klein is merciless,
there is no hope for him."

"None at all?" There was wistful pleading in
Arnold's voice.

"You liked him, did you not, Arnold? So did I.
Now you hint at rescue. But what of my mission
here? I have sworn Gonnard shall die, to-night will
see the fulfilment of my vow. Afterwards we will go
to Budapest."

"To-morrow will be too late, Geoffrey; surely
Gonnard can wait? Is not the life of Apor more to be
desired than the death of a Communist?"

"Be quiet!" His voice rasped with anger. "My
plans are all prepared. Nothing must be allowed to
upset them."

For a little while they walked along in silence, but
eventually Arnold spoke: "I do not understand you
to-day, Geoffrey. Has Gonnard done you any personal
injury that his death should be of more importance
than the life of one who has served you faithfully? We
may not save Apor—I cannot see how such a feat
could possibly be carried out successfully—yet it will
hurt me always if I—no, I say, we, Geoffrey—do not,
at least, make an attempt."

The White Knight knew how true were the words
of his lieutenant. In speaking aloud to Arnold he had
been arguing with himself. If he went to Budapest
Gonnard would escape his clutches, perhaps never to
fall into them again, and then what of his word to
Elizabeth? He had sworn that Gonnard should
die—Gonnard, the murderer of Elizabeth's cousin. On the
other hand, there was Apor. Had not Apor risked his
life, time after time, to get him news of the movements
of the Communists, information which was of the
utmost importance to the White Knight in his rescue
of the unfortunate victims of Bolshevik persecution?
Had not Apor, descendant of generations of warring
aristocrats, demeaned himself, humbled his pride, to
serve in the enemy ranks that he might more usefully
aid the White Knight? Was all that service to count
for naught?

Wenzel sighed. "You are right, Arnold. Gonnard
must wait. We will catch the next train to Budapest."

They turned toward the station, and as they
approached Wenzel looked behind him, smiling grimly:
"What an unpleasant day Gonnard will spend
to-morrow waiting for the blow to fall!"

* * * * * *

Gonnard knew Budapest as he knew the lines of his
face. There was not a criminal resort with which he
had not been acquainted in the old days of law and
order, while the number of more or less habitable
quarters where he might lie securely hidden from the
prying eyes of the detectives, and to which he had the
entrée, was well into double figures.

To one of these he drove the helpless Elizabeth. As
he brought the car to a halt he gave a quick glance up
and down the narrow road, but fortunately no one was
about, so with a deft movement, which was hard to
associate with one of his clumsy build, he picked her
up in his arms, and with scarcely any effort carried his
burden within, up the four flights of stairs to the
whitewashed attic, and there carefully locked the door behind
him.

Once safely there, apparently unnoticed, he plucked
the gag from her mouth.

"Well, well," he mocked, "here you are, little
chicken, and here you will remain until I have finished
with you." Like all cowards he was a bully at heart,
and he spoke with blustering braggadocio.

She gazed at him unflinchingly. "What do you
want of me?" she asked calmly.

The question set him roaring with laughter. "Ho,
ho! Innocent one! So you do not know for what I
have brought you here to my little love-nest? Ho,
ho! Think it well over, my sweet, and see if you
cannot find out before I return." Suddenly his attitude
became menacing. "Sit down!" he ordered.

Elizabeth laughed slightly. "You are a fool," she
said easily. "Do you think you can hold me here
against my will? I have only to raise my voice and I
do not doubt that I should have half a dozen people
flocking to my aid—in addition to the police."

He seemed to find humour in her answer, for his
face again broadened to a grin. "You think so? Let
me assure you to the contrary. In the first place, people
who live in this district mind their own business. Half
a dozen ... flocking ... your aid..." He could not
finish for the laughter which consumed him. "Women
have screamed for help before now, but no one has
interfered. We have more manners than that. As for
the police—— We live in different days, my sweet:
the police do not arrest commissaries."

"So you are a commissary?" Elizabeth looked at
him with a quiet scorn, which pierced even his hide,
and his eyes narrowed.

"Say all you want, my lady. It will be my turn later
on. Yes, I am a commissary. You and your kind no
longer rule the country; the proletariat have arisen.
Government for the people by the people is our watchword,
with no more magnates living like princes on
sweated gold."

Elizabeth did not speak in reply to this diatribe.
Despite her defiant attitude her heart beat with a
throbbing intensity. She knew her danger and
endeavoured to think of a way out, but she was conscious
of a hysterical panic which for all her courage she could
not repress, and the knowledge clouded her reason.

In the meantime Gonnard continued speaking. "Too
proud to talk, eh? Well, well! You will learn reason
very soon." His eyes lit, and he stepped up to her, so
that she shrank away with a repulsing gesture. "Why
should I wait?" he asked thickly. "Why should I
wait? You and me——" Then he calmed down.

"No. I will get rid of the car first, and see Bela Kun.
Just as well he should know that——" He broke off
short and glanced at Elizabeth.

Then, without the slightest warning, he clasped her
in his arms, turned her round, and inspected the
strength of her bonds. He laughed grimly. "You
will be safe enough. You won't undo that handkerchief
in a hurry. And just in case you should make too much
noise——" With a quick movement he forced her
mouth open and inserted the gag again.

Elizabeth helplessly watched his ungainly form as he
lumbered across the room. Under ordinary circumstances
she would have shrunk from him with loathing.
Now, in his power, it seemed to her that he was even
more horrible, still more the chimera of an unbalanced
imagination.

Gurgling deep down in his throat he unlocked the
door, then turned and blew a kiss across the room.
She shuddered slightly, and his mirth rang out coarsely.
Then he was gone, and she heard his footsteps heavily
descending the stairs.

She listened acutely. The echo of his steps grew
fainter, until it faded away; but presently she heard
the whir of the motor below, then the chug-chug of
the engine as it progressed along the narrow street,
until that too died away, and an unnerving silence
ensued.

Tired of standing she sat on a wooden chair, which
wobbled unsteadily, and nearly threw her to the floor,
but she managed to save herself by thrusting out a foot
against the wall.

Her mouth hurt abominably—the plugged handkerchief
nearly choked her, while a fold of it tickled
the back of her throat until she felt a spasm of vertigo.
Her wrists smarted with the rub of her bonds, and her
bones ached from the cramped position she had been
forced to occupy during the drive into Budapest.

Her physical pain, however, was as nothing to the
mental anguish which pricked and tortured her. Over
and over again she chided herself for her folly in
venturing so far from the château. Conscience played
havoc with her nerves; she realized that the discovery
of her presence might create danger for the rest of the
refugees, and that if that were not so her disappearance
might subsequently have a similar effect, for she knew
too that, as soon as the fact was discovered that she
was missing, search-parties would be organized, and as
they failed to find her they would surely venture farther
and farther afield. Was it not likely that in doing so
they might come into contact with curious peasants, or
be seen by suspicious Communists?

Her father—of what would he be thinking? What
would be his sensations as the hours passed and no
good news of her arrived? She rocked slightly in the
agony of her thoughts, and the chair very nearly tilted
over.

There was one other, too, of whom she scarcely dared
to think. The White Knight, the man who had risked
his life again and again to rescue her father and herself,
what would he think of her?

Her remorse was more than she could bear, and tears
started to her eyes for the first time in fifteen years.
With an effort she rose to her feet, and paced the floor
as far as its limits would allow, hoping that with the
physical effort her thoughts would plague her to a
lesser degree.

Presently she crossed to the window and gazed down
upon the road beneath, then at the houses opposite,
and she realized that, if the depressing environment and
the ill-cared-for state of the buildings counted for
anything, the commissary had not exaggerated his claims
to seclusion.

The street was dismal and unkempt; it radiated an
evil atmosphere, a suggestion of mystery. Here and
there people moved about, but, such is the force of
habit, even though the Government was now in the
hands of the criminal community, and everything was
done to favour instead of incarcerate the criminal, the
denizens of this quarter still continued to slink warily,
casting uneasy glances from side to side.

The women were drab, their faces were hard and
starved, while the men were brutal, their shaven heads
intensifying the criminal cast of their faces. Horrified
by all she saw, nevertheless Elizabeth could not withdraw
from the window. It was all so new to her who
had always lived on the broad, clean plains, who had
seen only village life, except for glimpses of the world,
now and again, from hotel windows.

A deep thinker and a student of physiognomy, she
believed she would have been deeply interested had
she been in more happy circumstances. As it was,
studying the neighbourhood as far as the narrow
compass of the window would permit, the sight did
not help her to minimize her plight; rather it assumed,
every second, an uglier garb, and she laughed mirthlessly.
Supposing she were rescued, say, by any of the
residents of the neighbouring buildings? It seemed
a moot point as to whether she would be any better
off, for her one thought then was whether any one face
which she saw from the window was more evil than the
next.

A minute later and, with a feeling of uncontrollable
horror, she had to reverse her theory. There swung into
her vision a tall man—like most tall men, stooping
slightly. He was dressed in filthy clothes, a cap was
crammed over his head and eyes, a scarf wound round
his neck. He walked as did Gonnard, with a shuffling,
uncouth gait.

At first she saw nothing of his face, but he stopped
by the wall to light a cigarette, and apparently his cap
must have caught on something sharp. Puffing the
cigarette he stepped forward on his walk, and the hat
came off his head.

For a brief second he gazed upward in surprise: it
was then that Elizabeth realized that of all the vile,
brutal faces which she had seen in the last half-hour
there was not one to be compared with that upon
which she now gazed.

Its monstrous ugliness hurt her, the blood-red scars
which deformed his head and face sickened her, and her
lips trembled. Supposing that it were he, not Gonnard,
who held her prisoner....

She saw him snatch his cap from the wall. His lips
moved, and she had no doubt that he cursed blasphemously.
He would have crammed his hat back on his
head when suddenly it seemed that her fixed gaze was
magnetically riveting his attention. He looked upward,
his eyes travelled toward her window.

With a shudder she jerked her head backward that
he should not see her ... and the White Knight,
wondering what impulse had made him glance upward,
continued his way toward the rendezvous he had made
with Arnold when they had parted at the station.

# CHAPTER XIII

That night the sun had scarcely buried itself
beneath the rim of the horizon when Gunzi
entered a low-class bar in a quarter scarcely a
stone's-throw from where Elizabeth was imprisoned.

Many things had happened that day in Aszod. In
the morning the White Knight had been daring enough
to touch him on the shoulder, whisper a message in his
ear, and yet dissolve into the crowd without betraying
himself in the slightest to the detective, and Gunzi,
who could conceive only that the White Knight had
singled him out for the purpose of fooling him, seethed
with fury against the audacious bourgeois.

He had masked it when giving Gonnard the whispered
message. He realized that the terror caused by
the constant succession of warnings was part and parcel
of the White Knight's plan, in which case it obviously
suited him to assist it to its fulfilment, for he was certain
that sooner or later the White Knight would betray his
hand.

After leaving Gonnard he worked diligently all the
morning, but with no tangible result, and his anger
increased, and burned within his breast like a smouldering
fire. Then, in the afternoon, he came across his
first clue. The man in prison recovered his memory,
not so much as regards his description of the White
Knight, but as to an address where the mysterious
avenger had once stayed.

There was only one small matter: if it should be
definitely proved that his information was correct he was
to be released unconditionally. Gunzi, who aimed for
bigger fry, was more than agreeable to this proposal.

When Gunzi investigated, it was to find that the
White Knight had gone from there, but—"Look you,
comrade, I had my suspicions of him. He did not
seem a true Communist, and he talked in his sleep.
One night when I was passing his door I heard the
name of Comrade Gonnard mentioned, whoever he may
be, and this man was turning, twisting, and swearing
vengeance."

"Yes, yes; but where went he after leaving you?" Gunzi
could scarcely control his patience.

"Ah! friend, maybe I can tell you, maybe I cannot.
Yet, some time after he left me, I saw him coming out
of a house in another part of the city. Where was it?
Well, comrade, am I not about to tell you? Why should
I hurry?..." And the detective had to listen for ten
minutes to unimportant and loquacious meandering, but
in the end he learned a fresh address.

Scarcely daring to hope he rushed post-haste across
the town. The door was opened by a smiling-faced,
buxom woman. Did she have a man so—and Gunzi
described to the best of his ability as much as he
knew of the White Knight—staying at her charming
residence?

"Why, yes, comrade, of course I knew him, but he
left me four days ago. Hearing that the château of
Zoltan Giesswein was to be taken over by the
Communists, he told me he intended to confiscate one of
the rooms for himself. He seemed a studious young
man. He was kind and kissed me when he left."

Later, Gunzi arrived at the château of Zoltan
Giesswein, once magnate and owner of a huge steel-works,
now a refugee in Vienna, devoting his time to the
formation of a White Army.

Here the men were more loth to answer questions,
for they, unlike the others, had not been coached in
their answers. What did it matter to Gunzi, they
asked, if such a man now lived at the château? In no
uncertain words they told him to look for himself.
Yet in the end he secured the information for which
he had been seeking.

"Him!" The man to whom the detective put
the question laughed scornfully. "He is out all day,
yes, and he is out now. But he will be back, comrade,
do not worry. A cold-blooded fish—women do not
interest him; he told me so this very afternoon. Tried
to make me believe he had had too many. As if any
man can have too many women!"

"So he will be back to-night?"

"I am not his mother. He did not tell me so."

"But you think he will?"

"Bah! I have no doubt that he will. Myself, I
believe he is afraid of the dark. He will be back. An
early worm!"

There were no longer any doubts left in Gunzi's
mind that he had tracked his man, and chuckling to
himself in triumph he hurried back to Gonnard to let
the commissary hear the good news.

When he looked for Gonnard the man had disappeared.
The detective could make neither head nor
tail of the mystery, and with a sinking heart came to
the conclusion that the White Knight had succeeded
in his revenge, cleverly anticipating his ultimatum by
a day, and he realized the full cunning of the daily
warnings.

For all that, where was the missing Gonnard? With
a tenacity worthy of a better cause Gunzi set to work
again, and fitted together, piece by piece, a possible
solution.

The commissary had fled in fear; and from the
facts he had collected Gunzi could not believe that he
had scuttled to anywhere save Budapest. Determining
to wait only long enough to arrest the Enemy of the
Commune, he resolved to follow.

He waited—in vain. Night arrived, and in the
end he realized that the White Knight too must have
hurried to Budapest, more than probably on the heels
of Gonnard.

Under the new régime Gunzi had no superiors. It
was in his own hands to depart instantly for the capital.
As for the necessary funds ... down one quiet road
he saw an old man shuffling along. At the pistol's
point, and in the name of the Commune, Gunzi forced
him to turn out his pockets, and fortunately secured
enough cash to get him to Budapest and back, with
the possibility of a drink or two in between.

Arriving late in Budapest he made his way to a
place he knew well, a beershop which defied the official
regulations as to the sale of intoxicating liquor, and
the White Knight, recognizing him, knew that the
Fates were playing into his hands, for he could have
wished for no better tool than Gunzi to use in the plot
already fermenting in his head for the rescue of his
lieutenant from the clutches of the Communists.

He followed Gunzi in and sat a couple of tables
away. With a loud but unsteady voice he ordered
drink. His rough tones were heard even above the din
of voices and clatter of glasses; several pairs of eyes,
observing him, twinkled significantly.

For a while Wenzel remained quiet, drinking
steadily, but after a time he shuffled uneasily.

"More drink!" he shouted, and a fresh bottle of
wine was placed on the table before him. He filled
his glass, rose to his feet, and banged loudly. The
noise of argument ceased, and he became a centre of
interest.

"Here ... here's to the Commune!" he toasted,
and with a wavering hand, which caused the wine to slop
over the rim of the glass down the front of his clothes,
he guided the glass to his lips and drank heavily.

"Hear! Hear!" There was an echoing chorus, and
the toast was drunk.

Wenzel refilled his glass, and once again pounded
on the table. "And—and damnation—to all Whites!"
he bellowed.

There was muttered laughter. The fellow was becoming
amusing, and for the sake of the fun they began
to encourage him. Once again they drank his toast.

"Go on, go on!" some one called out encouragingly.

Wenzel blinked, his head wagged stupidly from side
to side. "And death to all those who say otherwise,"
he hiccupped, and drained a third glass.

There was an unrestrained roar of laughter: "Keep
it up, keep it up!"

Wenzel refilled his glass, the wine spilling all over
the table in the effort: "And may—the—damned
traitor Apor—die soon."

There was a silence. This was news.

"What's that you say? Who is Apor?" Questions
were hurled at him from all quarters of the tavern.

Wenzel looked blearily around. "What! Have you
not heard yet of the arrest of Apor, assistant—assistant
to Comrade Eugene Hamburger, Commissary
for—for—for Agriculture?" he asked thickly.

There was a stir of interest. "No, no. Tell us,
friend."

"Tell you! Why not? Have I not heard the story
from Comrade Hamburger himself? This Apor was
a good Communist, yet secrets of the Soviet drifted
out, and the Council wondered why. One—one day
a detective searched this Apor's correspondence.
What do you think he found, friends?" He paused
dramatically, and looked round with a triumphant grin.
"He discovered, comrades, that Apor was a spy,
corresponding with Vienna, acting for the Whites."

There was a wild roar of anger from his listeners,
but Wenzel held up a shaking hand.

"Peace—peace, friends. There is more to tell you.
Not only was Apor a spy for the Whites, he was also
acting for one of whom we have all heard ... heard.
The White Knight, friends, the White Knight."

There was a momentous silence, broken only by
a gasp from Gunzi. Then, suddenly, the tavern
resounded with hoarse cries of anger. Many rose to
their feet. "Death to the traitor, death! Hang him!
Torture him! Make him confess! Make him tell of
the White Knight!"

If Wenzel had hoped to create pandemonium he had
undoubtedly achieved success. Presently the clamour
subsided, and once more all eyes were turned in the
direction of Wenzel, who continued to stand upon his
feet, but only with an effort. He swayed to and fro,
his eyes blinked and watered under the cap which
was crushed down over them. They could see only the
lower part of his face, and that but indistinctly, for
the scarf which was wound round his neck and chin
reached as high as his lower lip.

Wenzel laughed gutturally. "What—what use
shouting, comrades? Apor will not die. White Knight
will rescue." His speech became more indistinct,
and his audience feared that he would collapse in a
drunken stupor before his story was finished. Some
one dexterously removed the half-finished bottle from
the table.

At the same time this last statement was received
incredulously. Some one remonstrated: "Yah! Yah!
You talk loudly, my friend. How could anyone rescue
Apor? Is he not in prison?"

"Apor in prison." Wenzel laughed, and the saliva
dribbled from the corners of his mouth. "Of course.
He is in Parliament—cells. Yet White Knight will
rescue. Easy enough."

"Bah! I know the Parliament House cells, and I
say that not even the White Knight could rescue anyone
from them."

Wenzel wagged a remonstrating finger. "Yes, he
could, just same I could."

There was a roar of laughter, and Wenzel frowned.

"Tell us then," his hearers shouted, but Wenzel
shook his head. "You might tell Bela Kun—I
hang—keep my secrets—myself."

His talk was incoherent, the interest of the others
began to lessen. They had obtained all the news they
could from him, and now they wanted none of his
drunken babblings and theories of impossible rescue.

Yet there was one who leaned forward, eyes gleaming
interestedly. Gunzi knew well the potent influence of
drink: in his time he had secured many a guarded
secret from a man "liquored up" to a degree of nicety,
and Gunzi, reading the signs, was convinced that the
man to whom he had been listening had reached that
stage.

He moved his chair over to Wenzel's table: "Sit
down, my friend, and tell me. I am interested."

Obediently Wenzel collapsed on to his chair, then
glared malignantly at the detective: "Why should—tell
you and not—not—not other people?"

Gunzi shrugged his shoulders. "They are fools,
they would believe anything. Myself, I would not.
I ask you to tell me so that I can point out to you how
impossible would be your plan."

For a moment he believed the Devil had been raised
in the other man, for Wenzel shot out a clawing hand
which searched for the detective's throat, while Gunzi
shrank back, his small rat-face paling, but the effort
was too much for Wenzel. His arm relaxed, fell
heavily upon the table, and his head followed suit.

Gunzi frowned. Supposing he learned something
of advantage to Bela Kun! It was not unlikely that
the Dictator might reward him. He leaned forward
and whispered: "More drink, eh, friend?"

His words had their effect. Wenzel raised his head
and blinked. "Yes," he muttered, "if you pay."

"I will pay," Gunzi agreed eagerly, and ordered
wine. Slowly Wenzel raised himself to a sitting
position, and drank.

"Well, comrade, how would you rescue this traitor,
Apor?" prompted the detective.

"Easily. Suppose ... suppose, for instance, I were
this—this White Knight. Would I wait longer than
early to-morrow morning rescue Apor? No, comrade,
for if I were the White Knight I should hear that
to-morrow Apor—come before Korvin-Klein. There—therefore
should I act even before the sun rises above
the—the horizon.

"To Parliament House I should go with a letter
from Bela Kun himself, an order to release an unnamed
prisoner." Wenzel chuckled, and looked cunningly
up at Gunzi from the corners of his eyes. Unconsciously
his hand wandered to his breast pocket and
patted it caressingly. "What would the jailers say?
'What want you ... this prisoner?' I should tell
them.... 'Bela Kun's business. Apor to be hanged
elsewhere.... Allies might hear of it ... interfere.'"

Gunzi smiled scornfully. "A fool scheme, comrade.
The jailers would smell a rat. They would refuse to
hand over the prisoner."

Wenzel leered. "Yah! You take me for big fool!
I am not that, no. I am all ... I ... I would
be all prepared. Do I not know the jailer would be
curious?..." Somehow the expression of his face
changed, and Gunzi saw a look of suspicion cross the
features of the other.

"Why—why ask you all these questions? What
does it matter to you?" His eyes seemed brighter,
less bleary.

"Nothing, nothing at all, comrade." Gunzi
endeavoured to appease the other: "You will drink
again?" The detective dreaded that the symptoms of
the drunken man might change. At present he was
docile; just stupid and sleepy. If he should become
ferocious, should the spirit of battle be aroused within
him ... Gunzi had seen many a drunken scrimmage
in his time, and with a sinking heart realized that the
other man's temper was slowly rising.

Quickly he ordered the drinks. Wenzel observed
the bottle of wine set before him, and wavered. He
stretched out a hand to grasp it, and Gunzi sighed with
relief. The next moment Wenzel rose to his feet and
towered above Gunzi. He seized the bottle and crashed
it down on the table, where it shivered to pieces, the
wine spurting in streams on to the floor.

"You—you spy!" In a thick, unsteady voice
Wenzel accused the detective. "I will not talk to you.
Perhaps I will kill you!"

There was drama in the air. Once again Wenzel was
the centre of attraction, and several men near by tensed
themselves, ready to spring to Gunzi's help. Wenzel
gazed round him with a belligerent air, but seemed
to realize that the odds would be against him, for with
a growl he turned his back and swayingly zigzagged
his way to the door. This he opened, and the next
moment disappeared into the night, and with scarcely
another pause the tavern resumed its normal appearance.

Nevertheless Gunzi was annoyed that he had not
heard the finish of the scheme, though he believed he
had heard enough to assure him that the White Knight
intended to act before the early morning. Some one
ought to be warned!

He communed with himself. He had enough news
to give Bela Kun to warrant asking a favour in return.
If he waited until morning the White Knight might
have carried through his plans, and have liberated Apor.
Then of what use would it be for Gunzi to approach
him?

He made up his mind, called the waiter to him, and
asked the way to Bela Kun. The man smiled. "Bela
Kun may be anywhere. In the palace of the Hapsburgs,
in the Parliament building, or yet, and still more likely,
in Batthyany's Palace. He likes good food, I am told,
and there is nightly a great feast there."

With rapid steps Gunzi made his way toward the
Batthyany Palace, and for the first time obtained a
glimpse of Budapest under the Red régime. Everywhere
he passed wholesale looting was taking place.
Savage Red guards and drunken Terrorists, riding
wildly about in confiscated automobiles, commandeered
food and dwellings.

Other bands paid domiciliary visits in search of
bourgeois spies, or refugees. Hostages were arrested,
to be kept in prison against the good behaviour of the
innocent bourgeoisie.

Even Gunzi was slightly surprised, though not
shocked, and he was all the more determined to gain
a post in Budapest. He began to have visions of a life
about which hitherto he had hardly dreamed. In Aszod,
he realized, he had been too faithful to his duties, even
if he were indubitably a Communist.

He remembered the beautiful mansion in the
Theresa Boulevard, and because he had visions of it
still in his mind's eye as he neared it, its present
appearance caused him to rub his eyes and wonder whether
he were dreaming.

In front of the house the pavement was heavily
barricaded. Lights gleaming from the mansion
behind the obstructions reflected on the barrels of
field-guns, machine-guns, and Minnenwerfers, while before
the gates were three heavy motor-lorries, armed with
machine-guns.

Here and there patrolled Lenin Boys, and Gunzi,
looking through the barricades, could see that each
one was armed with revolver, bowie-knife, and hand-grenades.

Gazing at the mansion in bewilderment, Gunzi
compared it to a fortress, and, as he was afterward
to find, the imagery lost nothing in the searchlight of
reality. It was indeed a veritable fortress. Down in
the cellars were stored an enormous amount of ammunition
and quantities of food. Still more, it protected a
host of Lenin Boys, who, under the leadership of Josef
Cserni, an ex-sailor of no mean physical dimensions,
terrorized the city of Budapest.

Evidently Gunzi was betraying too great an interest.
He felt something boring into his ribs, and turning
round found a Lenin Boy covering him with a rifle.

"Well, comrade," the guard growled unpleasantly,
"what do you want? This part is unhealthy for
sightseers and tourists."

"I am looking for Bela Kun."

"Well?"

"I have news for him, urgent and important news."

The Lenin Boy laughed shortly and jerked his thumb
in the direction of the palace: "I doubt that you have
news more important than the little lady who doubtless
occupies his attention at the moment. Try and see him
to-morrow, friend. You will find him more inclined to
listen to affairs of State."

"To-morrow will be too late," protested Gunzi.
"Tell Bela Kun my news concerns the White Knight."

"What!" The guard lowered his rifle. "That is
different. The Devil! Why did you not say so before?"

"Did you give me a chance?" asked Gunzi, but the
other had not heard, for with a muttered "Follow me!"
he turned and was threading the barricades toward the
entrance of the Batthyany mansion.

Five minutes later Gunzi was taken to Bela Kun,
and there received another shock. Partly warned by
the waiter at the beerhouse, he had realized that he
would find the Dictator partaking of some sort of a
feast, but in no way was he prepared for the positive
banquet which was set out in one of the rooms.

The tables groaned with good food and wine, all
commandeered, and round them sat dozens of Terror
Boys, already showing traces of the orgy in which they
were indulging. Not only Terror Boys were there,
but many women, kidnapped earlier in the evening and
forced to take a part in the wild revels.

In the Batthyany Palace there was no evidence of
the food shortage. No one seeing the nightly feasts
which took place would have suspected that in Hungary
people were starving for lack of nourishment, that
women sold their souls to keep homes going. The best
of everything was served up to the four hundred odd
Terror Boys and the commissaries, with their wives
and mistresses. "The Commune!" One day in the
future dictionaries will print another definition of the
word. Perhaps—"mine—thine." It will be sufficient!
The true Communist may rant of "share—share!" He
can afford to, he who has nothing to share!

Gunzi could readily conceive Bela Kun's dislike to
being interrupted after the business of the day was
over. On his knee sat a young girl, perhaps nineteen
or twenty years of age. Her clothes were torn in front
from neck to waist, exposing here and there two
snowy-white, innocent breasts. Her dainty little face was
suffused with terror; her dilated eyes, her trembling
lips were ample evidence that she was in torment—and
Gunzi saw that she was but one of many.

When he saw the detective Bela Kun glanced up
with an ugly frown. "I hear you have urgent news
for me concerning the White Knight? What is it?
And listen, my friend, if it is not important——" He
left the threat unspoken.

Gunzi, who in his own way was not unpossessed
of his share of courage, smiled slightly. "Fear not,
Comrade Bela Kun. My information is more than
urgent. It needs immediate attention.

"To-night I arrived in Budapest from Aszod and
entered a tavern for a glass of beer. There I came
across a man, half-drunk, who rose to his feet and told
the company at large that an assistant commissary, by
name Apor, had been arrested to-day."

Bela Kun's eyes narrowed. "This grows interesting.
I thought the fact of Apor's arrest was secret. Go on."

"Next," continued Gunzi, "he told us the reason
why. Apor had been found corresponding with the
Whites in Vienna." He looked at the Dictator for
confirmation, and the other nodded his head slightly.
"There was an uproar from his listeners, but this
drunken fool had not finished blurting out all his
secrets. He told us all something else. He said that
Apor was also an emissary of the White Knight."

He stopped short. With a roar of rage Bela Kun
rose to his feet in a turmoil of excitement, throwing
the girl to the floor, where she lay, sobbing. Fiercely
the Dictator peered into the face of the detective,
seeking to divert the direct stare of the other, but Gunzi's
glance did not waver.

"Satan! If that is true——"

His words rang queerly to the astute detective.
"What do you mean, comrade?" he asked hoarsely.
"Did you not know that?"

"No, by God, I did not!"

"Then," said Gunzi quietly, "that proves my
theory. The man who, with a drink-loosened tongue,
let me into all his secrets must have been a member
of the White Knight's gang." He smiled scornfully.
"That must have been good wine!"

Bela Kun waved his hand impatiently. "Tell me
more."

"I got this man to talk. He told me much; not
all that I wanted, yet sufficient to assure me that before
the sun rises to-morrow Apor will have been rescued."

"Impossible! Apor is imprisoned in the cells
beneath Parliament House."

The detective shrugged his shoulders. "Yet it is
all planned. The White Knight has a letter from you,
an order to release an unnamed prisoner——"

He was interrupted by a hoarse growl of rage from
the Dictator: "The Devil! He speaks the truth. Some
time back I wrote one out. It disappeared. How did
he get that?" Light dawned in his mind. "Apor!"

Gunzi nodded. "You see, comrade, I do not
exaggerate. That much I discovered, but that was all.
Not only will the White Knight rely upon that letter,
but he has some other plan up his sleeve. What it is
I cannot tell. If you wish to keep Apor prisoner you
must act now—immediately."

"You are right." Bela Kun's face worked with
the rage which consumed him, but presently his face
calmed, and slowly a smile—a grin of wile and
cunning—spread across his features.

"I think," he said, chuckling, "that for once the
White Knight is going to fail. Before the sun rises
to-morrow morning Apor will be dead."

"You mean...?" Gunzi raised his forehead
inquiringly.

"I mean that I shall telephone immediately to
Parliament House. In less than ten minutes' time
a few trusty Red guards will convey Apor to the
Suspension Bridge and drop him into the Danube,
bound hand and foot, that the rat shall not struggle.
Do you not think that a good scheme?"

"It is the only one," agreed Gunzi admiringly.

# CHAPTER XIV

Two men crouched back deep in the shadows
of Parliament House, tensely waiting, waiting
with a nervousness neither could conceal.

"Arnold, the time goes slowly. I feel damnably
afraid. Supposing my plan should miscarry, supposing
I have failed to elucidate the intricate workings of
Bela Kun's twisted mind, I shall have signed Apor's
death-warrant just as if I had passed judgment on him
myself."

"You can do no more, Geoffrey, than what you have
done. In any event Apor would die."

"Never have I perpetrated such a thin, feeble plot,
Arnold. It has so many weak links. When Gunzi
passes on the news to Bela Kun, the Dictator may refuse
to credit Gunzi's story; on the other hand, he may be
so enraged that he will telephone through to have the
poor fellow bayoneted right away. Or, if Apor is to be
flung into the Danube, he may do it from Parliament
House, and all we shall hear will be a splash and—and
Apor will be no more." His voice broke slightly.

"That—that, I am afraid, is your weakest link,
Geoffrey."

"No, you are wrong there, Arnold, and it is upon my
estimation of the ingrained cruelty of the Red guards
that I have staked the success of my plans. To you or
me it would be an easy matter to dispose of—of Apor.
A blow on the head, and over the balustrade into the
river. Nothing could be more quiet, more secretive.

"Such a programme fails to satisfy the Communists.
It is too quick and too easy a death, so they drag their
victims to one of the bridges. That takes time—every
yard progressed is a mental, poignant stab for the
unfortunate prisoner. Every step is punctuated with a
thrust from a rifle butt or the prick of a bayonet. Fine
torture that, Arnold, and ... well, I hope to Heaven
that they think Apor worthy of it. Otherwise he is
doomed and——"

Some one stumbled in the distance, and with a
warning touch on Arnold's arm Wenzel stopped short,
and the two Englishmen waited, hoping against hope
that Bela Kun would fall into the trap. With fierce eyes
they watched the door from which the condemned
prisoners were led. Would it open?—would it open?

The streets were quiet and comparatively deserted.
At night only the Terror Boys, or slinking fugitives,
ventured out, for there were flying bullets, apt to hit
the most innocent targets. At night the Red guards
were even more belligerent. Those who would live, or
remain unmolested, stayed indoors.

Thus the steps of the one whom Wenzel had heard in
the distance echoed loudly in the quietness, and the next
instant the air resounded with the notes of a jubilant
song. In quavering tones, hideously out of tune,
punctuated with hilarious bursts of laughter, the
inebriated singer disturbed the peace, and the effect was
the more weird for its jarring contrast to the air of
tragedy in which Budapest was steeped night and day.

Suddenly Wenzel swore. Judging by the increasing
clearness of the wild sounds which the man uttered he
was approaching Parliament Square. The White Knight
clenched his fist with a desperate intensity. "May the
Devil seize him, the drunken swine!" he whispered.
"If his visit here should coincide——"

The door which they watched was opening, formless
shapes could dimly be seen issuing from it, and the
next moment Wenzel knew that up to this point his
plot was a success, for in the vague, uncertain light
of an adjacent street lamp he could distinguish Apor,
handcuffed, surrounded by three armed Red guards.

The moment the door was shut behind the group
the time for action would have arrived. Wenzel and
Arnold gripped their revolvers by the barrels, ready to
bring them down upon the heads of the soldiers.

The drunkard came nearer, and Wenzel could have
cried cut in agony. Instead of proceeding with their
ghastly business, the guards were hesitating, looking
curiously around. The Englishmen shrank closer into
the shadows. If they were seen...

For some reason the men seemed disinclined to slam
the door, and start.

"Hullo, comrade, what noise is that?" asked one.

The man to his right laughed slightly. "Some one
who has failed to heed Bela Kun's instructions as to
prohibition. His row is enough to awaken the dead.
What say you, friends—shall we knock him across the
head with our rifles and teach him a lesson?"

"You are envious, you," exclaimed the third man.
"Let us get this job over. I feel sleepy."

"Yes, leave the poor devil alone. He is lucky to
get it, that's what I say."

The sanguinary one hesitated, and the damage was
done. The group had been seen. Steering an erratic
course the drunken singer made toward them.

"What ... matter...? What are you men doing here?"

Wenzel stiffened. The voice was reminiscent. He
peered through the darkness, but the newcomer had
his back toward him.

"Move on, comrade, and mind your own business."

"Who you telling—mind my business? I am
commissary—for me order you about...."

"Hell!" The guard who had originally suggested
doing what Wenzel longed to do turned upon the
drunken man with an angry air: "Don't you talk like
that, my friend. Get on, I say!" He stretched out an
arm and roughly pushed the other, so that the
commissary stumbled and nearly fell. By swinging round
he saved himself, and then Wenzel saw his face.

A wild sense of exhilaration bubbled up inside the
White Knight. How wrong to think that Fate was
playing against him! How wrong, when it was just
the opposite! How it was that the man came there,
what he was doing in Budapest, Wenzel could not even
imagine, but at that moment nothing mattered, nothing
except that after all he could keep his oath to Elizabeth,
for there, in front of him, was Comrade Gonnard.

he gripped Arnold's arm convulsively, and with the
slightest hiss Terhune signified that he was prepared.
Events were turning out more propitious than either of
them had dreamed. For a brief space the Red guards
were interested in disposing of Gonnard, and without
being aware of it their vigilance had lessened.

Once again Wenzel's fingers conveyed a message,
and the next instant two silent forms leaped from the
shadows of Parliament House. There were two
sickening thuds, as two of the guards collapsed to
the ground with scarcely a moan.

The third man yelled with surprise. Hypnotized
by the sudden attack, his limbs refused to move until
he saw three shadows advancing toward him with an
uncanny quietness.

His hand darted to his belt; even as he pulled out
the heavy Army revolver his fingers tightened on the
trigger, and a stream of bullets whipped through the air,
the attendant flickering flashes of light momentarily
lighting up the drama with a ghastly clarity.

Almost before the guard's last shot had finished
echoing reverberatingly round the square it was
challenged by two new reports, and even while Apor
whirled round and dropped, and Gonnard, the third
man, grunted and gently collapsed, the guard shrieked,
and then he too slumped to the ground, where he lay
still and motionless.

Wenzel was conscious that one other shadow still
remained upright. "Who is it?" he asked hoarsely.

"I am untouched—and you, Geoffrey?"

"Safe—but I am afraid Apor is down."

It was Apor himself who answered: "Only a flesh
wound in the arm, Wenzel."

"Thank God! But now we must run like Hell.
Quick, Arnold, help Apor."

Already Apor was making an effort to stumble to
his feet, but his manacled hands made the task difficult.
Arnold bent down and practically lifted him to his feet.

"Away with you," Wenzel growled—his ear caught
the sound of running footsteps inside Parliament
House—"they are coming."

For one second Arnold hesitated: "And you, Geoffrey?"

"Leave me, I will join you—later," he answered quietly.

There was no time to argue. With a quick run
Arnold and Apor disappeared into the night en route
for a previously arranged destination, and Wenzel
laughed softly to himself. Provided that nothing
unforeseen should happen, in five minutes' time Apor
would be safe, and once again the White Knight would
have scored another triumph.

He knew that he should run—he could hear the
reinforcements, shouting in their excitement, just
inside the door. Four, three more paces and they
would be in the open, their revolvers cocked ready to
spit at the shadow which he knew would be faintly
visible to them. Yet, before he left, there was one
more task to do.

Gonnard was lying at his feet: alive or dead he
knew not, nor was there time to investigate. That
would do later. He picked the body up and flung it
across his shoulder. The first guard came through
the door, and Wenzel fired. His aim was true, the
man fell heavily.

There were dismayed cries from the others, and
the rush ceased suddenly. It was all that Wenzel
required. He turned, and his long legs carried him
across the square and away into the friendly darkness,
while the bullying Red guards cowered back, shooting
indiscriminately from the cover of the protecting
doorway.

There was no pursuit, and as Wenzel quickly drew
farther away the crackle of the shooting sounded
fainter, until suddenly it stopped, and the White
Knight knew that revenge for the death of Elizabeth's
cousin was now certain.

He was well away, and rapidly drawing near the
Suspension Bridge. He stopped short as he
approached it, but there was not a soul to be seen, and
he continued on his way across it. In the centre he
halted again, and slipped the unconscious commissary
from his shoulder.

Gonnard was not dead. His heart was thumping
irregularly, but strongly, and even as Wenzel laid him
down the wounded man stirred, moaned with pain, and
spoke.

"My ankle! What has happened? My ankle, it
hurts. Where am I?" He spoke as though his mind
were in a haze.

Wenzel bent over to him and whispered in his ear:
"In the hands of the White Knight, Comrade Gonnard,
and to-day——"

He heard the Communist gasp. There was a
moment's silence, tense and dramatic, then Gonnard
shrieked with horror. Wenzel clapped his hand roughly
over the mouth of the other, and the noise died away
to a faint gurgle.

With the other hand Wenzel fumbled in his coat.
Always prepared for emergencies, there was a length
of rope in his pocket. Sternly and unemotionally he
adjusted a noose, and slipped it round the neck of the
commissary. The other end he tied to the steelwork
of the bridge.

Easily, as though he were lifting a baby, he raised
the Communist up. Once again he whispered in his
ear: "The White Knight pays the debts of two
Hungarian officers, comrade."

Then he dropped the helpless commissary toward
the water: Gonnard fell the length of the rope,
moaning. The noose tautened—the corpse swayed to and
fro like a pendulum—and with a set face, on which
there was not the slightest expression of pity or horror,
the White Knight passed on his way. In the country
of lawlessness there was but one law: "An eye for
an eye, a tooth for a tooth!" His merely the hand of
judgment—alas, the only hand!

* * * * * *

"Suicide!" was the general verdict of the large
crowd which gathered round to watch the unusual
spectacle of a man hanging in mid-air, suspended from
the bridge.

The news spread rapidly. Some one recognized the
corpse as that of a commissary. The rumour came
to the ears of the Council, the meeting was hurriedly
adjourned, and many of its members hastened to the
bridge.

Some one pulled the body up. The pockets were
searched ... and the Communists glanced affrightedly
at one another. There was no need to explain the tiny
piece of carved wood which the searchers discovered.

The white knight spoke for itself.

# CHAPTER XV

When Elizabeth eventually awoke from her
last unsettled sleep she became conscious
that her body was cramped, aching in every
bone, and she hazily wondered why. Next she frowned,
for her eyes failed to recognize her surroundings. Then
she tried to flick from her face an unruly, annoying
hair, and not until she found it impossible to move her
arms did her mind become clear.

All at once she remembered the events of the day
before—her abduction, her agonized wait through the
long hours for the return of her jailer—and finally she
recollected relaxing. After that she assumed she must
have fallen asleep.

She still sat upright on the chair, the one and only
article of furniture in the attic other than an equally
rickety table—and an empty soap-box. Her mouth
caused her more terrible pain than she had ever
imagined existed, and she wondered how the hurt of it
could have allowed her to sleep. Her arms felt numb
and paralysed.

Despite everything she felt a wave of exhilaration:
she was still unharmed, uncontaminated. It was almost
a good omen.

This feeling did not last long, for gradually it
evaporated, a blank despair taking its place. There was no
means of knowing the time, but a faint suspicion of
chill in the air made her suspect it to be still early
morning. Even so, it meant that she had been missing
from the château for twelve or thirteen hours, sufficient
time to have confirmed the worst misgivings of her
father and of her fellow-refugees.

Thoughts of her father hurt. His gentle soul would
suffer from the uncertainty of her fate. What would
he imagine had happened to her? Would he suspect
the truth? She endeavoured to persuade herself that
such a thought would be farthest from his mind, but
unfortunately she realized only too well that one of the
most possible solutions of her disappearance would be
what had actually occurred.

What would the White Knight say? As not
infrequently happened, her thoughts turned toward her
two brief recollections of her rescuer. Extraordinarily
enough, each time she had met him they had remained
in pitch darkness, so her only memory of him was his
voice.

The thought of him thrilled her. In thinking of him
who was known as the White Knight she became aware
of an extraordinary glow of warmth within her, as
though, at the mention of his name, there was kindled
an inward fire. Her blood pounded through her body
all the more hotly because of it, and, almost against
her will, her brain visioned dreams—light fairy
fancies which airily danced to the blithe tune of her
innermost desires.

As yet she was unaware of the reason. In her life of
partial seclusion, her father and his work had occupied
the greater part of her thoughts, so that his alone would
not be the triumph when his book finally saw the light
of day. Her work and her encouragement had been
invaluable to him.

With her day occupied, and her maternal instincts
satisfied in the loving care of her father, men had somehow
failed to find a place within the limit of her mental
horizon. Love, marriage, and motherhood had been
names only; to be venerated in due course admittedly,
but as yet relegated to some future time.

She naïvely believed her interest in the White Knight
to be unexpressed thanks for his deliverance of her
father and herself from the clutches of the Communists,
and therefore it did not seem unusual that the memory
of the deep vibrant clarity of his voice should ring so
repeatedly in her ears. Strangely enough, the quality
of their voices was to each of them a revelation of the
other, for it had been the fearlessness, the steadiness,
the sweet cadence of Elizabeth's tone which had first
attracted the White Knight's attention, though
afterward her voice ceased to be remarkable because it
inevitably became an integral part of her charm and
beauty.

She was convinced that, to judge by the little she
knew of him, he was all that an English gentleman
should be, and so she was wont to visualize him as
being tall, and owning more than his fair share of
strength, for had he not fought the swift Danube
current, landing them both in safety—a feat she had
previously believed impossible?

He had been excellently educated; his cultured
voice assured her of that; his accent, the result of
four years' practice that he might converse worthily
with Zita, was irreproachable, his foreign mannerisms
discernible only to the acutest eye.

Of his age she was more uncertain. Physically
she would have surmised that he was at the zenith
of manhood; in strategy and generalship he seemed
apparently older by a score of years. That this last
assumption might be correct she hated to admit, not
realizing that four tense years at the Front more than
made up for a thrice longer period lived under mor
peaceful conditions.

As to his characteristics, she considered it scarcely
incumbent upon her to criticize one who risked his life
daily to aid the helpless nobility of a country against
which he had but lately been fighting, and in any event
she could not conceive that in such a man there could
be anything other than good.

It was only about his looks that she was doubtful.
In her imagination she saw him with strong but
sympathetic blue eyes, possibly shadowed by slightly
heavy eyebrows. His hair, she felt, would be of a
nut-brown colour, alive with crisp, irregular curls, while
his face surely would be long, consistent with his
height. His nose undoubtedly was finely chiselled,
his chin round, firmly betraying the masterfulness of
its owner.

The White Knight! How applicable was the name!
He was indeed a knight-errant, truly a 'White'
knight as opposed to the 'Reds.' Like a legendary
figure of the past, he might have arisen from the ashes
of forgotten heroes, have been a reincarnation of one
of the saintly king-warriors with whom the pages of
Hungary's history abound.

Such was her dream-picture of him, such was the
cloak of perfection in which she had wrapped his
personality!

* * * * * *

There was a sudden clamour in the street below, and
Elizabeth realized that for a brief time she had
forgotten her plight in contemplation of the White Knight.

She heard a voice shrieking, "Long live the
Commune!" and shuddered. How long would the hated
Commune exist? Had not the Communists already
dragged their country into the lowest depths of
degradation, without wishing to exist solely for the
purpose of completing the ruin? During her stay in the
château she had learned the real meaning of Communism,
what it had done to her country, and to Russia also.

She tried to struggle to her feet, but found that her
legs were lifeless. The rigid attitude of her sleep had
prevented the blood from circulating; when she tried
to stretch she found she could not move her limbs.

Her under lip trembled slightly. Sleep banished,
dreams dissolved, once again the full realization of her
plight returned to her. Why had the Communist not
returned? How could she escape before he did? Her
eyes gleamed more brightly and her mouth tightened
to control the quivering muscles. Her courage returned
in full, overpowering even the knowledge of her
helplessness. Had she not struggled for hours the night
before till her wrists bled, fruitlessly endeavouring to
free her hands? Had she not worked her mouth till
it was swollen and sore to dispose of the gag, without
the slightest suggestion of success to encourage her?

For all that she would try once again. Whatever she
might suffer now, it would be as nothing compared to
what she would have to endure should the commissary
return. Before anything, however, she realized it was
necessary to force her legs into activity again.

She began by concentrating all her will-power to
fidget her toes about. For some time there was no
response, so she tried tightening the muscles of the
limbs with spasmodic jerks. The effort of doing this
caused her exquisite torture. Acute, tormenting pains
shot up and down the arteries, so that she had to bite
her lips to prevent a moan escaping.

Again and again she worked her muscles so, till at
last feeling returned to her toes. After that her work
became easier, if more painful, until finally she felt she
could stand, and with a great effort braced herself up
to her feet.

She had overestimated the strength of her legs. They
were unable to bear the weight of her body, and she fell
to the ground with a heavy crash which jarred every
nerve in her body, twisting her arms until she wondered
if either of them was broken.

For ten minutes she remained as she had fallen, a
hundred different pains racking her body, while her
brain havered on the borderline of consciousness. Only
an indomitable will to refrain kept her from fainting.

At the end of that time she recommenced her
exertions, but now she was in an even more awkward
position than before. There seemed only one way of
gaining her feet. Rolling to the wall she placed her
back to it, and pushing with her slowly reviving legs
gradually forced herself upward until she stood.

She crossed to the window and looked down upon the
street below, but it was quieter. Evidently the crowd
who had just been noisily acclaiming the merits of the
Commune had departed for another quarter; there were
not more than half a dozen people in all to be seen, of
which number three were women and two children.

The sight served to cheer her more than anything
else. She felt that if she could but escape from the
room she might yet gain a safer part of the city without
molestation. Yet—how to free her hands?

Despairingly she gazed round the room. There
seemed nothing in any shape or form which could possibly
assist her. Obviously there was but one thing to do—to
continue twisting her wrists as much as possible in
the hope of finally loosening the handkerchief.

Perhaps half an hour passed, but it became more
apparent that she was no freer than she had been at
first. She angrily chided herself on her woman's
weakness, confident that a man could have wrenched his
hands apart from sheer strength.

She could feel her wrists bleeding again, the skin
bruised by the rasping of the material. She did not
know how much blood was escaping, but there was
enough to make her hands sticky, and she became afraid
that if the cloth should become saturated it might shrink.

Feverishly she continued struggling, and for some
time without any signs of success, but suddenly her
thumb slipped through into a fold. She forced it higher
and still higher till it hurt, but all at once it was free.
The rest was easy. While her index finger struggled
to follow suit, she forced the material farther down the
hand, till a few seconds later her arms were free, and her
mouth too.

Then she cried—not from pain or fear, but from
pure relief. Only a few seconds before she had believed
her task impossible, and then, unexpectedly, she had
succeeded. There remained now only the door.

Drying her tears she approached it and caught hold
of the handle with both hands. Placing her feet against
the wall, she pulled, but the door held steadily, and
presently she had to stop to regain her breath, but for
only two minutes or so, when once again she took up
her position.

Her hands turned on the handle; she pulled, and the
door swung open. Gonnard had thought it locked, but
the key had merely turned in the lock; the tumblers
had not moved. Elizabeth laughed, a trifle hysterically.
She had pulled so hard, when all she need have done
was to have walked out....

What did it matter? The way to freedom was before
her, and, stopping only to dust herself as far as possible,
and wipe away as much of the blood from her wrists
as she could, she crept cautiously down the steps and
into the street.

* * * * * *

It would have been difficult to decide which of the
three men walking toward the Château Juhusz was the
happiest. Apor would have sworn it to be himself.
During his brief imprisonment he had not been without
hope that the White Knight would rescue him, even if
he was more than fully aware of the difficulties which
his leader would be bound to encounter.

This supreme confidence upheld him, right until
the time when he had fallen asleep in his cell. At the
Communists' threats, at the brutal jesting of his jailers,
he had merely laughed lightly. Somehow or other the
White Knight would rescue him!

Because of his high spirits the reaction was all the
greater when, a few hours later, he awoke to find a
leering face bending over him.

"Come along, my friend, get up." The words had
rung ominously to Apor's ear.

"And why?" he had asked. The Red guard had
grinned.

"Because why?" he had repeated. "Because Bela
Kun has just telephoned through and ordered you to be
taken at once to the Suspension Bridge to be dropped
over."

"My God! But that would be murder. Surely I
am at least entitled to a trial?"

The guard shrugged his shoulders. "It is none of
my business, comrade. Besides, what do you want a
trial for? The result would be the same."

Apor could not deny it. As assistant commissary
he had seen more than enough of the methods of the
Communists to know how true was the remark.

The blow had been a heavy one. Convinced that for
some mysterious reason the Communists had suddenly
changed their plans with regard to him, he had been
forced to realize how impossible it would be for the
White Knight to rescue him, and so, with a sinking
heart, he had resigned himself to fate, prepared to
meet his death as a man should.

By the time the handcuffs were snapped upon his
wrists he had given up all hope of rescue, and though
he walked with a steady step there had been a bitter
smile upon his lips. He had not understood the reason
for the urgent need of his death—the Communists
knew, of course, of his connexion with the Whites, but
as far as he was then aware, they were not cognizant
of the fact that he was also a member of the White
Knight's band.

So, in his own mind, Death had stood at his shoulder,
and yet, unbelievably, miraculously, he had been rescued.
Instead of being dead he was alive, and his heart
filled with a bubbling happiness. No longer need he
pretend; now he could openly declare himself a White,
and fight for the relief of his country from the clutches
of the Bolsheviks.

Arnold, on his part, was filled with a sense of
satisfaction, and, better still, a pleasurable anticipation.
Satisfied, because Apor was safe, and pleased—more
than pleased—because in a few minutes' time he would
see Cecile again, would look into her eyes, where he
hoped to see the flame of welcome, of gladness, because
he was still safe and unhurt.

Their love still remained unspoken, yet to themselves
neither disguised its existence, just as each recognized
that it should remain unrevealed until other times—better
times—when the Red octopus should be slaughtered.

And Wenzel ... in one stroke he had fulfilled
his oath to Elizabeth and, by an ingenious plan, had
rescued Apor. The one puzzling aspect in the
drama—namely, how it was that Gonnard was in Budapest—did
not worry him for long. What mattered how he
came there? He had met his fate, and Elizabeth was
avenged.

Elizabeth! It was because he was near Elizabeth
that the White Knight was conscious of an infectious
gaiety in the air. Within a few minutes they would
reach the clearing. Then, while Apor and Arnold
went in, he would climb one of the bordering trees, and
with greedy eyes would watch every fleeting expression
which would cross her face, every graceful movement
of her body, while she walked the weedy gardens of
the château with Cecile, with Arnold, or with her
father.

He was content just to watch her so, to worship her
from afar. Beyond that he knew he might never dare
venture. If once she saw him—his searing scars...
He visioned her face if that should ever happen, and
saw how it would twist into horror; how she would
shrink away in disgust.

He forced these thoughts from his brain and
indulged in more roseate dreams. Arnold, he knew,
understood, and would diplomatically arrange that for
a short time she should wander where he could best
see her. Dear old Arnold! What did it matter to him
what happened to Hungary? What had been his reason
for helping Hungary? Only an innate pity for the
helpless, a gallant, old-fashioned quixotism, a love of
adventure, and, above all, friendship for the man who
was now his leader. That was all! Wenzel smiled to
himself. All, originally, but now Arnold had another
interest in Hungary. He had been rewarded. Well, he
deserved it. He had risked his life for Hungary, and
sooner or later, if all went well, he would pluck one of
her choicest blooms for himself.

No brighter was the sun which bathed the country
in its benevolent smile than the thoughts of the three
men and the faces of two. Whatever his inward
thoughts, Wenzel's expression never changed. He
knew from past experience that, hideous as was his
face in repose, it became positively satanical when
he smiled, for then his face puckered up, his wounds
twisted into grotesque shapes, and to look upon him
thus was as if looking upon the visage of a satyr, a
mocking mask of demon-like cunning.

They reached the edge of the clearing. With a
slight motion of his head Wenzel sent his two friends
forward, then climbed the branches of an adjacent tree,
from where he could see and yet remain unseen.

To his impatient glance it seemed as if Apor and
Arnold lagged in their walk to the château, but at last
they disappeared within. Not long to wait now! A
few minutes more and he would see Elizabeth! Already
he knew every sweet expression by heart.

It seemed hours before anything happened, though
actually it was but four to five minutes—just long
enough for an hysterical father to pour the story of
Elizabeth's disappearance into Arnold's horrified ears,
and for the tired and despondent searchers to confirm
and corroborate.

Unsuspectingly Wenzel waited. He wondered why
Arnold had not yet succeeded in enticing Elizabeth
into the garden. Then from his leafy retreat he saw
Arnold hurrying toward him.

Wenzel's eyes narrowed and his nerves seemed to
tighten warningly. There was something in Arnold's
attitude, in his unusual walk and expression, which
prepared Wenzel for bad news. He quickly swung
himself down from the tree, and dropped even as
Arnold approached.

"What is it, Arnold? There is something wrong?"

Arnold's glance wavered and dropped. "There is,
Geoffrey," he said huskily. "I—I—Elizabeth Kiss
has—disappeared."

Wenzel battled with his emotions. He felt a tigerish
fury arising, but knew that firstly he must hear all and
not let his temper cloud his reason.

"Tell me!" he said curtly.

"She told Cecile that she was going out to pick wild
flowers as usual—that was some time between four and
five o'clock. Cecile suggested going as well, but
Elizabeth laughingly commanded her to finish the picture
she was painting, and went alone.

"By six o'clock she had not returned. Imre Kiss
began to fidget, and when at seven she was still missing
he insisted on a search-party.

"They divided into groups. One group headed
towards the Budapest road, and just near found a big
bunch of flowers lying carelessly on the ground, as if
they had been suddenly dropped. That was all! All
night long they have searched, and there is still no sign
of her."

"The Devil! What does it mean?" Suddenly
Wenzel jerked his head forward. "Wheel tracks,
footprints, were there marks of any kind on the road?"

Arnold laughed bitterly: "No one thought of
looking. I asked the same question."

Wenzel felt his blood seething: "Oh, heavens!
What idiots, what stupendous fools! Hell! For what
are brains made if people do not use them? Fools!
Fools!" He clenched his hands in the agony of his
thoughts. "And you, Arnold, what do you think?"

"Heaven only knows what to think! So many
things might have happened. A band of roving
Communists may have seen her—a—a—Hades! Geoffrey,
I hate to say it, but I must—a licentious
lunatic—Heaven alone knows!"

Wenzel bowed his head and groaned slightly. "Oh,
I hope not. I have not said anything to you, Arnold,
but ... I can never hope for anything else, yet just to
watch her from a distance..." Suddenly his mood
changed again. His passionate temper—born the day
he first saw the foul ravishes of the Communists, and
aggravated by the mis-aimed bullet which had seared
perilously near his brain—burst its always unstable
barriers, and Arnold saw deep into his leader's soul,
and for the first time saw how near twisting it had
been but for Elizabeth. He realized also, if anything
should happen to her, how it still might warp.

With fierce, angry words Wenzel blasphemed his
Maker, reviled the world, and even cursed his parents
who had brought him into it. For a brief space he
was insane. There was no one, not even Arnold himself,
who did not come beneath the flail of his wrath,
and Arnold flinched before the torrent of words which
Wenzel released.

Presently he became calmer, and in the end he
apologized in halting, broken sentences.

"I am sorry, Arnold, but—four years I dreamed
and planned—for four years I dodged bullets, praying
to God that I might live—I loved Zita so, she was my
beacon, the one star in the black, overcast sky—full
of hope I journeyed to Budapest, only to find her
dead—dead, Arnold, before my eyes, killed simply and
solely by horror....

"Can you wonder that my brain may have given
way? Since then I have seen worse sights: Szamuelly
hanging innocent men just for the love of killing—gouging
out their eyes for the pleasure of torture—burying
his victims alive for the sake of brutality.

"Then God was kind to me—I met Elizabeth. I
can never even let her see me, yet—once again I have
found a star to guide me, and if anything happens to
her too, if the Communists have—— Arnold, I must
not give way." He stopped, his lips moved, while his
teeth bit into them.

"There, I am calm now.... Arnold, listen!" His
voice was crisper, once again he was the White
Knight, the leader. "That road, near which Elizabeth
presumably disappeared, is the road to Budapest. It
is quite possible that Elizabeth has been carried away
to that city. It is but the barest possibility, I admit,
yet there must be no stone left unturned, no avenue
which must be left unexplored, to find her—safe
or—or otherwise.

"While I go to Budapest you must go the other way.
Francis can tour the countryside between Budapest and
here; Apor from here onward.

"If you should find her, meet me to-night, fifty
yards from the Tunnel, Pest Bank, on the left-hand
side of the road, at nine-thirty sharp. If I am not there
within forty minutes meet me the following evening.
Now go. I shall try to get that early train back to Buda."

With two seconds to spare Wenzel caught the overcrowded
train to the capital. It meant lying on the
roof, but as there were many doing the same he was
in no way conspicuous. Not very long afterward he
was once again in the lions' den.

Outside the station there was a crowd, gathered in
several groups. Wenzel could see that a spirit of
excitement prevailed; there were many individual
speakers, gesticulating less confidently, for they were
being heckled from every direction. He would have
passed quickly on his way, anxious to get into the
heart of the city, from where he intended to commence
his search for Elizabeth, but suddenly his attention
was arrested by the mention of the White Knight.

Even the most secret sessions of the Soviet Council
were apt to be noised abroad, and more than once, by
joining Communistic gatherings, he had garnered
information which had subsequently proved invaluable
to him.

"Yes, comrades, despite all the boasting of the
Supreme Council that they would soon have detectives
on the track of this White Knight, this protector of
the bourgeoisie, this Enemy of the Commune, as he calls
himself, he has been at work again, has flaunted the
feeble efforts of the detectives, and scarcely less than
twelve hours ago had the audacity to rescue again a
prisoner from under the very noses of the Red guards.

"Bah! The fools! Do you know the story, friends—would
you like to hear the details? Eh! I thought
as much. Yesterday morning an assistant commissary,
named Apor, was arrested by members of the
counter-espionage. Apor was a White spy. He was thrown
into prison, into one of the Parliament House cells.
You might have thought that he would have been safe
enough there. So would I. But listen.

"Late last night our worthy Dictator learned that
Apor was more than a White spy. He discovered
that the assistant commissary was one of the White
Knight's band. That was news, was it not, friends?
What did he do? What you or I would have done,
and wisely.

"He knew the White Knight would try and rescue
his follower, so there and then he telephoned through
to Parliament House and ordered the guards to throw
this Apor into the Danube. Yes, all of you, that was
Bela Kun's order, and no one can say it was wrong.

"In less than five minutes the Red guards left
Parliament House with their prisoner. They had
scarcely got outside the door of the building when two
of them were stunned, the third one shot dead, and
Apor, the traitor, the spy, was rescued!"

His next words were lost in the fierce growl which
arose from the crowd. Question after question was
asked of the speaker, but he stood mute, holding up
his hand for silence, and presently, recognizing that he
still had more to say, the audience quietened down.

"That was not all!" With fierce emphasis the man
flung the words at the surrounding crowd, and as they
sunk into the brains of the people there was a tense,
dramatic silence.

"Yes, he did more than that! This White Knight,
disdainful of the Commune and the weak efforts to
catch him, hanged a commissary from the middle of
the Suspension Bridge."

Evidently the man had a sense of the dramatic.
He swayed his listeners as he willed, and Wenzel saw
a grin puckering the corners of his lips as the crowd
obeyed his unspoken commands.

The people raged and stormed. "Death to the
White Knight! Search him out! Hang him!" That
and more they yelled and shouted, all the while Wenzel
wondered the reason for the enigmatic smile. Evidently
the speaker had an axe to grind.

Wenzel was soon to know. "Now, comrades, if
Szamuelly were allowed a free hand..." So that
was it! A tout for Szamuelly. Szamuelly the murderer
was not yet satisfied. More and more blood must flow
to appease his appetite.

A tiny pin-prick of murderous hatred danced in
the White Knight's eyes. Not yet had he forgotten
Bira, and now Gonnard was out of the way. But first
Elizabeth.

Now that he was in Budapest, where in the name of
creation could he look for her? She might be in any
one of a thousand buildings, even assuming that she
were indeed within the limits of the city. She might
be to the north, south, east, or west.

At any rate, for what little good it might be, he had
a fixed plan in his head. In the morning, which even
now was nearly over, he would call in at every
coffee-house frequented by the Council and higher members
of the Commune. There he might pick up scraps of
conversation or a slight clue, anything which might
suggest any connexion with the disappearance of
Elizabeth.

In the coffee-houses, he knew, the talk was apt to
veer round to women. If they all failed he would try
the beer-taverns and the wine-bars, where the men
conversed together even more openly still of their
women-folk, and at one of them what would be more natural,
or unnatural, according to which way one thinks, than
that the kidnapper should boast of his capture?

The spouter outside the station continued to rant of
Szamuelly. It was evident to Wenzel that he would
do no good staying where he was, and so he carelessly
moved off, and was presently away from the crowds,
once again his mind reverting to Elizabeth.

With his thoughts centred upon her he began his
weary search.

# CHAPTER XVI

There are coincidences in real life which far
outrival their nearest cousins in fiction. Life is
a paradox, controlled by mysterious forces of
Nature which even the most learned of students does
not dare to criticize.

Coincidence it may have been, yet there is a more
subtle explanation. On that morning two minds were
fixed upon each other. Wenzel, as he moved from
coffee-house to coffee-house, was aware of one thing,
was obsessed by one thought, only—Elizabeth—he
must find Elizabeth; and so his brain disseminated
his innermost resolves and desires, and upon the wings
of Nature's electric waves, for ever radiating through
the ether, were shed Wenzel's mental longings.

On her part Elizabeth crept through the streets of
Budapest with a furtive air. She wandered hither and
thither, up one street and down the next, only knowing
that she sought a station, or a neighbourhood she knew,
but afraid to ask, to question passers-by, lest she should
draw attention to herself.

Despair was in her attitude. Even if she reached a
station she had no money with which to journey back
to the château again. In the sullen, uncouth faces
which paraded the streets of the Communist stronghold,
where was one which she could recognize, where
was one, perhaps kindly and sympathetic, to which she
might turn for succour?

There seemed not one. In the days of the Red
Terror Budapest was safe only for the Terrorists, the
Red guards, and their rabid supporters. The rest
had fled or else kept within the scanty security of their
single rooms.

The very environment of the town filled her with
a nervous dread, brave and fearless though she was
ordinarily. In her plight there was but one upon
whom her thoughts turned. The White Knight! If
only he knew!

So, as she wandered aimlessly, she wondered what
he would think of her. What would he do when he
discovered her disappearance? What could he do?
She smiled bitterly to herself. There was nothing. In
all Hungary how could he possibly surmise that she was
in Budapest?

She encouraged herself to think of him as she continued
her search for—what? She herself scarcely knew.

Like magnet and steel they gradually drew together.
Neither of them aware of the fact, their thoughts were,
attracting one another, picking up the broadcast
messages, until suddenly, as each turned a corner, they
met with a force which sent her reeling to the wall, and
his hat to the ground.

Wenzel stared at her with a blank amazement. Like
a miracle she was all at once before him, not a vision
of her, but the real her, panting for breath. His eyes
lit with a glare, a flash of triumph, of love; his lips
moved to shout out her name in a glad welcome; but
just in time he remembered.

He dared not do so. She must never know him for
what he was, never realize that she had met the White
Knight face to face; for his romance would be broken,
never to be mended. He felt the horror with which
she would always in future regard him, for, with a
bitterness which cut into his heart, he saw it already
rising in her eyes.

He did not misread her expression. A cold wave
of terror swept over her as she recognized the face of
the man who had looked up at her window the night
before. Too vividly she remembered the scars, the
evilness of his looks. She shrank away from him,
sick and faint lest he should take notice of her. Even
Gonnard before this man—and at that moment she
prayed to God that He might send the White Knight
to save her.

He saw on the other side of the road a man, whom
he knew to be a journalist, eyeing them queerly. With
a vile oath he crammed his cap back on his head again,
and spat on the ground. With a leering glance he
moved on.

Out of the corner of his eye he saw the newspaper
man turn away, so he looked back. Elizabeth was
hurrying off as quickly as her legs could carry her.
Wenzel swung round on his heels. He must not lose
her again.

While he discreetly followed her through the streets,
Wenzel puzzled over the strange problem of her
sudden appearance. The last thing he expected was to
find her at liberty. At the same time his heart was
troubled with doubts—not of her, but of what horrors
might have happened to her in the meantime.

As the time passed, and the chase continued, along
road after road, he was forced to the conclusion that she
was wandering aimlessly. She was certainly making
for no specific object, for first she headed to the north
or the east, then to the south or the west.

It was not until he saw her stop by a communal
restaurant, and look inside with a longing expression,
that he remembered that in all probability she was
without money. He saw her hesitate, move on, and
then retrace her footsteps. Once again she faltered
before the open door. Then with a determined
movement she went within, and he groaned.

Not knowing that Elizabeth, starved and miserable,
and unable to stand any longer the pangs of hunger
which gripped her, had decided to throw herself on the
tender mercies of the proprietor, he was convinced that
his supposition with regard to her financial stability
was wrong, though he knew that she was doomed to
disappointment. Only those with the red food tickets
of the manual labourers or the blue ones of the
intellectual workers were allowed to dine at the communal
restaurants, or even buy food at the shops.

Two minutes elapsed. He frowned, imagining that,
after all, she must have obtained the necessary tickets,
and that she was feeding. Disturbed, he left his
retreat—the shelter of an empty shop window—and took two
steps toward the restaurant.

At that moment Elizabeth emerged, dazed and
bewildered by the truth. In perhaps kinder tones
than he had used for a long time the proprietor had
explained that matters were no longer as they used to
be—it was not of his own choice: in the old days he
had served ladies and gentlemen, and liked them well.
No, he dared not serve her. He had a wife and child;
if he were thrown into prison for surreptitiously feeding
a bourgeois—he asked her pardon for using the
word—what would become of them?

As she came out Elizabeth felt the tears springing
to her eyes. Here, in Budapest, in a big middle-Europe
city, the capital of a large country—even then being
carved up by the peacemakers in Paris—her plight was
no better than that of a castaway on a desert island.
Surrounded by food of a kind, yet unable to eat any
of it! Passing thousands of people, yet not daring to
speak to one of them! Scarcely forty miles from the
château, yet without the slightest possibility of getting
back there!

A bubble of hysterical laughter forced itself to her
throat: then, surprised at her own humour, she looked
up, and her mirth died away. As quickly as Wenzel
had retreated to his shelter again, her sharp eyes had
seen and recognized him.

Instinct gave her an inkling of the truth: he was following
her. The human vulture had scented his prey, and
was merely waiting the opportunity to pounce upon her.

The knowledge threw her into a state of panic.
Obsessed by the terror with which the man of the scars
inspired her, she hurried from the spot, oblivious of
everything except the fact that somehow or other she
must get away from him.

Just before she had been ready to drop with fatigue;
now the startling discovery supplied her with fresh
vigour. Forgetting that her feet were sore, that blisters
were developing, that her legs were leaden, and her
wrists smarting, she blindly threaded the streets in an
effort to shake off her pursuer.

So quickly did she travel, indeed, that she very
nearly succeeded. Not realizing that she had seen him,
Wenzel still kept at a reasonable distance, and thus
came to a choice of roads, with no inkling as to which
one she had taken, for both streets curved inwardly,
thus effectively hiding the continuity of each one.

He felt the first warning of temper, a curious
constriction in his throat, but resolutely he conquered
himself. He realized that he must take a chance. She
had come from the road on the left. Hurrying as she
was, he felt it would have been natural for her to have
taken the nearer one to her, and so he too took the
same one, increasing his pace considerably in an effort
to catch her up.

He was wrong. Elizabeth had not even realized
that there were two roads. She had seen one ahead of
her, and had crossed to it, but, had she known, it would
have been all the same. The street was a crescent,
curving back to meet itself, and so for the second time
that day they met face to face.

She faltered and stopped; a moan escaped her lips.
All her efforts for nothing, and with the realization of
her failure returned a consciousness of her weariness,
and knowledge that she could continue no longer.

She leaned against one of the trees which lined the
street, her breast heaving with despair and lack of
breath. One hand clutched her throat, the other she
rested over her heart as if to stay its wild beating,
and thus she waited, physically unable to continue her
flight.

Wenzel read her mind, realized that she had reached
the limit of her tether, and was glad, for in the
meantime he had formed a plan in his head, a scheme by
which he could secure her safety, and yet not have her
suspect that he was the White Knight.

With a rapid glance in each direction he observed
that there were but three people to be seen, all women.
He lurched up to Elizabeth.

"Well, my little chicken, a fine chase you have led
me." His voice was rasping and uncultured, and never
for a moment did Elizabeth connect it with another
voice of which, even now, the memory echoed in her
ears.

She looked at him scornfully. At her steady glance
Wenzel felt a glow of admiration, and at that moment
loved her more than ever. Her quivering under lip
betrayed the fact that her heart was sick with fear, but
otherwise her attitude was one of defiance, of cool
disregard for his blustering arrogance.

He shrugged his shoulders. "Too proud to speak
to me, are you, my fine lady? Well, that does not
worry me. When you hear what I have to say you
will soon change your tone." He lowered his voice:
"Listen, I have news for you from the White Knight."

"The White Knight!" There was a marvellous
transformation, a bright light dawned in her eyes, and
her face was suffused with a newly found relief and
joy. "You bring me news of the White Knight? God
be praised! How knew he that I was in Budapest?"

"Because he saw you early this morning, and sent
me after you. Why did you hurry away from me?"

His question seemed to awaken suspicions in her
mind, for she drew herself up slightly. "I will tell
that to your master, the White Knight," she said coldly,
and then asked: "What is the message you bring me?"

"Huh! Is that all you have to say? After all my
trouble following you round the city and awaiting a
convenient opportunity to speak to you! Bah! I have
a good mind not to tell you."

Instantly she was apologetic. "You will forgive
me?" she said prettily, and Wenzel had to turn his
eyes away so that she should not see into them and
recognize the thoughts behind. "I—I have been
frightened."

"Yes," he answered surlily, "I suppose so. He
said that you were to come with me and I should take
you to him."

"Oh!" She clasped her hands together. "Then
I shall be able actually to see him? God be praised! I
thought I was lost, and yet for the second time he has
come to my rescue. Where is he?"

"That's none of your business. You wait and ask
him yourself. In the meantime, come with me."

"I am ready," she said simply.

Wenzel himself did not know the neighbourhood
in which they were, but with the bump of locality
strongly developed he proceeded in what he believed
to be the direction where a week ago he had found
new headquarters. In the heart of the roughest district
of Pest it was there he believed he would be least
suspected and least conspicuous. Already he had seen
in the same street many faces which, if not as brutal
and terrifying as his, were at least more decadent and
bestial, more sensuous and cunning.

He recognized it as a risk to take Elizabeth there,
for she was too beautiful not to be noticed, but, once
in his room, he knew there was less prospect of
interference, and less likelihood of being detected by a
chance detective or spy, all of whom were too busy
raking in the bourgeoisie and magnates from the better
parts of the town to worry about the criminal quarters,
especially when, in the present lawless times, their
interference meant, more than ever, death.

The journey was long, and as the time passed vague
suspicions occurred to her that everything was not as
her momentary optimism had suggested, and in that
spirit she began to see the situation in a different light.

The man by her side had not once mentioned her
name. Certainly he had said he was from the White
Knight, but what proof had she that he really was?
She had heard from Arnold and Francis that the White
Knight was known and hated throughout the
Communist community of Budapest, but on the other hand
more than revered in the circles of the persecuted.

It was therefore, she argued with herself, not
impossible that her present escort, calculating from her
attitude that she was being pursued, and perhaps not
realizing that he himself was the guilty one, had craftily
used the name, hoping that it would act as a password
to her confidence.

More and more she became uneasy, and when she
glanced up at the scowling face of her guide all her
terror of him returned. Suddenly she stopped, and
when he looked round questioned him.

"Why did not the White Knight himself come after me?"

There was grim humour in her words which
unfortunately he alone was able to appreciate.

"Huh! So you are suspicious of me, are you, my
fine lady? For why do I work for this spawn of Satan,
this bourgeois, the White Knight? Only because he
pays me good money—money which I spend to have
a merry life. There is nothing else to live for in these
days but money. He pays me well, pretty one, but
so would Comrade Bela Kun. I could give him a lot of
information. He would not be suspicious of me, nor
insult me with sneering glances and haughty airs.

"Why did not the White Knight himself run after
you? Perhaps he knew it would be a long chase—though
his legs are longer than mine." He laughed
at his own joke, then leered into her face so that she
shrank back. "What do you take him for? An idiot,
a fool with the brains of a babe? If the White Knight
ventured into the street he would be torn to bits.
Now follow me again if you want to see him."

Without another word, without a look to see whether
she was keeping up with him, he strode on, and almost
at once Elizabeth caught him up. There was so much
truth in his words. Not only that, but with a queer
feeling of constriction at her heart she realized that a
false move on her part might throw the mysterious
Englishman into the hands of his enemies. Supposing
through her the White Knight were betrayed...?

The neighbourhood became more shabby, somehow
reminiscent, and with a shock Elizabeth recognized the
street. They were passing by the building in which she
had been imprisoned the previous evening.

Despite herself, doubts again began to arise in her
mind. That she should be brought to the same street
was too much a coincidence. With a wrenching pain
at her heart it seemed to her that, too late, she saw
through the whole plot. The commissary, having
discovered her flight, had sent a friend out to search for
her, and, like an innocent child, she had believed that
the man—of whom instinctively she had been afraid—was
an emissary of the White Knight.

Suddenly she reasoned to herself that the White
Knight would never put his faith in such an evil person
as the man with the scars, and with that thought she
became conscious that it was now too late for her to
escape.

The knowledge proved too much. Wenzel heard
her gasp, and suddenly realized that she was fainting;
so with a rapid movement he put his arm tightly round
her waist, and holding her upright by sheer strength
forced her on until at last he came to his destination,
and turned into a dark and evil-smelling doorway where
Elizabeth collapsed into his arms.

More a result of exhaustion than anything else,
her brief swoon was soon over, and she revived just
as Wenzel tenderly laid her on a decrepit bed which
stood in a dark corner, scarcely remaining upright.

She sat up weakly. "You cur, oh, you cur!" She
spat the words out with a fierce intensity, and two
bright red spots glowed in her cheeks.

Wenzel was amazed at the reception. Not for a
moment suspecting the trend which her thoughts
had taken, not even aware that she had been near
the neighbourhood before, he could not conjecture
what her unexpected words represented, but if he did
not know the wherefore of them, he understood their
significance and saw how he could take advantage of
them.

"Ho, ho, my fine lady, more suspicions?" He
laughed mockingly.

"You have lied to me!" she panted breathlessly:
"you do not know the White Knight; you are no
gallant helper of his. Fool that I was not to
understand," she continued bitterly. "You are a friend of
the man who kidnapped me. Oh, Heaven, how cruel,
how cruel! To get away safely once, only to be
captured again." She faltered, and, that he should not
see that her discovery was more than she could bear,
turned her head away.

A fierce glow of relief flooded the whole of his body.
In a few words she herself had answered a question
which he would never have dared to ask. Safe and
sound, untouched and unhurt! In his emotion he
laughed aloud, and Elizabeth shuddered, taking it to
mean a confirmation of her accusation.

At the same time her words gave him the clue he
needed as to what had happened, and also assured
him that she would never, never suspect the truth.
He would play up in earnest to the part which she
had allotted him, and so he spat upon the floor.

"Ho, ho! So you are quick at putting two and
two together, are you, my dear lady? You have made
five of it this time. You are right up to a point. You
were missed—and not by the White Knight, oh, no—and
I was sent to look for you.

"But he won't see you again—not yet, anyway. You
are far too pretty, my dear. Why should I go to all
that trouble for nothing? It isn't every day I can pick
up a fine prize like you for the asking. I am going to
keep you for myself.

"You have heard of the White Knight, have you?
I thought the bait would work." He grinned. "Well,
well, the nearest you will see of the White Knight for
some time now is the one in the box over there. While
I am gone to tell my friend how I lost you, you can
work out a few chess problems and see whether the
white knight can prevent his queen being checkmated.
I shall be back—later." With a roar of significant
laughter he walked from the room, and this time
Elizabeth heard the key turn unmistakably in the lock.

Her soul wilted, for whatever fear she had felt of
Gonnard was infinitesimal compared with the terror
which she now experienced. There was only one thing
which prevented her giving way to the hopeless despair
that gripped her in its vice. The few words which he
had spoken had flashingly supplied her with a possible
scheme of escape, and, only waiting till the sound of
his footsteps had completely faded away, she leaped
from her bed, prepared to risk her life on one throw
of the dice.

The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Trail of the White Knight,
by Bruce Graeme

# CHAPTER XVII

A lurking shadow whistled sibilantly as
Wenzel approached, and the White Knight,
recognizing its low note, knew that Arnold had
kept his appointment.

"No news for you, Geoffrey." Arnold's voice was
full of sympathy.

Wenzel laughed happily. "But I have, old man,"
he announced. "I have discovered her. Listen, walk
along with me and I will tell you everything." And
so, while they walked, talking carelessly, yet withal
keeping a wary eye open for Red guards and the
Terrorists, Wenzel retailed the story of his chance
meeting with Elizabeth and the subsequent happenings.

"And now, this is where you come in. When I go
back there I shall play up to my part, and torture her
mentally so that she will never believe me anything
other than the worst specimen of a Communist on earth.

"About twenty minutes later you will burst in.
There must be a grand battle, and in the end you will
give me an upper-cut and I shall be hors de combat.
Then you can hurry her away, and the deed will be
done. Make up some tale or other as to how you
discovered her.

"Only one thing, Arnold. Never, under any
circumstances, must she ever suspect that I am the White
Knight. If you had but seen her expression when she
looked me full in the face!..."

In silence they walked along toward their destination,
until at last Wenzel halted.

"Look, Arnold, you had better have a drink while
you are waiting. Give me about a quarter of an hour,
and then follow."

They parted with a handshake, and while Arnold
dropped into an illicit beer-tavern Wenzel passed on
to where he had left Elizabeth.

There was no light in the room, but he could hear
the sound of her breathing. He struck a match and
illuminated a half-burned candle, which, stuck in the
neck of an empty wine-bottle, occupied a place of
honour on an old soap-box in the middle of the room.

Elizabeth was on the bed, gazing defiantly at him.

He laughed coarsely. "Well, my little canary, are
you glad I have returned?"

She did not reply, but continued to gaze at him in a
steadfast manner.

He advanced toward her with an ugly glare. "Sulking,
are you? I know what to do with perverse women." He
moved another step nearer to her, his attitude
became more menacing, but still there was no sign of
fear on her face, and he thrilled with admiration at her
bravery.

"Speak, you, or by God! I will choke the breath out
of your body with my fingers," and he waved his hands
before her.

"A gentleman," she said at last, "would take off his
hat in the presence of a lady."

He burst into a bellow of rude laughter. "Do you
call yourself a lady? Do you know what I have called
you to all my friends? I have told them you are nothing
but a——"

Before the fateful word was out of his mouth she was
stung into activity. With faring cheeks she sprang up
from the bed, her hand flashed upward, and there was a
sharp report as it came into contact with his face.

His eyes sparkled. It was just what he would have
had her do. Still, he had a part to play. With a roar
of rage he grabbed hold of her in his arms and pressed
her to him.

He felt her shudder convulsively, and tightened his
muscles in expectation of the struggle which he believed
she would put up. In that he was unexpectedly
surprised. Her hand strayed to his side, fumbled there
for a moment, then dropped listlessly down again, and
she remained passive within his grasp.

He looked down upon her face, slightly bewildered
by her lack of resistance. Her eyes were closed, and he
wondered whether she had fainted in horror, but even
as he looked they flashed open.

There was a quizzical expression within them, a
curious sense of elation; and suddenly he became
conscious of a feeling of uneasiness. It was almost as
if she had deliberately played for this moment.

Once again he looked into the depths of her eyes
and saw therein a mocking devil which gibbered at
and scorned him. A tempting, overpowering sensation
gripped hold of him. Flashingly it occurred to him that
never again in his life would he hold her quiescent in
his arms. Her lips were there, so red and inviting, so
near to his.

He knew it was the last thing he should have ever
dreamed of doing, it being far from his nature to take
advantage of a woman in his power, but his leaping blood,
hot with a fire of passion lit by her glance and her
position in his arms, mounted to his brain: the next moment
he bent over her and pressed his lips gently upon hers.

It might have been any time from five to ten seconds
that they remained thus; then, with a moan, she
wrenched her arms upward and, placing her hands
upon his face, pushed with all her might and forced
him away from her.

Instantly he released hold of her, so she drew away
from him and tremblingly sat upon the bed, her fingers
upon her lips. Yet her expression was not one of
loathsome horror as he had expected; instead it was one of
bewilderment.

He wondered why, because he was not to know that
during that long kiss Elizabeth had received a surprise.
She had read his expression, had seen quickly what
was going to happen, and had been unable to prevent it.
His burning lips had come into contact with hers, and
she had expected from them a bestial, sensuous kiss.
Instead their pressure had been soft and loving, their
contact caressing.

After that momentary pause there was a dramatic
interruption, a pounding on the door, the calling of
gruff voices, and the next moment six Terrorists burst
into the room, Gunzi leading them. The White Knight
knew then that he had reached the end of his race, that
capture, imprisonment, and death were ahead of him.

He leaped for the door, and quicker than the eye
could follow his fist had lifted once, twice, and two of
the Red guards reeled backward with a grunt of pain;
then his hand flashed to his hip-pocket, where reposed
a loaded revolver, but just as his fingers touched its
ready butt something dug into his stomach, and he saw
that Gunzi, the detective from Aszod, had him covered.

With a shrug of his shoulders he resigned himself
to his fate. He had expected it to come sooner or later,
and now that it had arrived... Only one thing pained
him. Elizabeth would discover that he was the White
Knight. He had hoped to remain but a mythical figure
in her memory, one of whom she could dream. Now, if
ever she remembered him, it would be only to shudder.

Gunzi spoke. Turning to Elizabeth he asked:
"Is this the man?"

Elizabeth nodded. "Yes, the man who stands there,
a prisoner in your hands, is the man for whom the
Commune has long searched—the White Knight!"

During his adventures Wenzel had succeeded in
schooling his expression; whatever his thoughts, they
remained secret, being mirrored neither upon his
features nor in his eyes, but at this his control gave way.
He could not believe the evidence of his ears—Elizabeth,
the woman whom he had twice saved from worse than
death, to betray him thus into the hands of his enemies!

It seemed to him that he must be in the throes of
a violent, unpleasant nightmare, and, as if to awaken
himself, he shouted: "You lie! You lie! I am a good
Communist, me! Believe her not, comrades; she only
seeks revenge——"

"But who denies it?" interrupted Gunzi smoothly.
"Of course she seeks revenge, and rightly so. Who
are you, friend, to insult such a worthy member of
the Commune? For your very threats to her she seeks
revenge."

He could not understand Gunzi's words. "What
mean you—threats? What have I done to this woman
that she should lie about me?" His voice was hoarse,
not that his race was ended, but because Elizabeth, of
all people, had been the one to betray him.

Her ingratitude was beyond his comprehension; it
was too ghastly that this—this vile betrayal should
be her thanks for everything he had done for her and
hers, as also for others of her country-people.

Gunzi, the rat-faced, smiled derisively: "You did
not threaten her, my friend—you did not, then, send
her—this?" From his pocket he pulled out a tiny
carved piece of wood, a white knight, all-betraying,
all-accusing. "You did not, I suppose, send her this as
a threat, because she is a good Communist, because
she would not give way to your evil suggestions, eh,
my friend?" He turned to Elizabeth: "He is but
a craven fellow after all; I begin to wonder if he is
indeed the White Knight."

Elizabeth laughed scornfully: "Is not his letter,
his threat, proof enough? Besides, doubtless he hides
in one of his pockets another such proof of his bourgeois
proclivities."

Gunzi smiled softly: "A good suggestion!" He
plunged his hands into Wenzel's pockets. In the first
two there was nothing, but when the detective tried
another pocket, on the left-hand side, he laughed
triumphantly as he pulled out another small piece of
carved wood. Line for line it was identical with the
one Elizabeth had sent him. Side by side Gunzi placed
them on the palm of his hand, and Wenzel drew in
his breath with a hiss of fury. Like two peas from a
pod, neither differed from its twin by even a fraction of
an inch. Mutely they convicted him. They would be
proof enough for Korvin-Klein.

Yet how had it got there? Just as Wenzel knew that
Gunzi's words were lies, lies to weave around him a
mesh of evidence from which it would be impossible
for him to escape, so was he positive that half an hour
ago every one of his pockets had been empty of all but
money, a revolver, a handkerchief, and finally a key
to his room.

Suddenly he realized the truth, and his head bowed
with the anguish of his thoughts. Elizabeth's eyes, her
expression of triumphant manœuvre, her failure to
struggle when he had first grasped her in his arms, the
slight fumbling of her hand on his waist, finally his
suspicions that she had deliberately encouraged him
to do what he had done—now he understood. The
whole story was an open book before him. Elizabeth
herself had dropped the white knight into his pocket,
just as Elizabeth had weaved the plot which was to be
his undoing.

But Gunzi was speaking to her, and Wenzel listened,
his heart sick with sorrow.

"Here you are, my girl; here is the reward for
capturing the White Knight. Bela Kun told me to
give it you." He laughed sourly: "You did well to
mention it in your letter to him."

So she had written to Bela Kun! His temper, ever
hovering near the surface, for the second time that day
broke beyond control. With a flash of his wrist he
knocked the pistol from the hand of the Red guard
who had taken Gunzi's place, and it clattered to the
ground.

Almost at once three other guards seized him, but
he shook them off almost as easily as he would have
flicked a fly from his sleeve. Gunzi stood before him,
but Wenzel, using his arm as a flail, bowled him
head-first into a corner.

He stood before Elizabeth, and she shrank back as
she gazed into his flashing, murderous eyes. He seemed
a fiend incarnate, and she shrieked, a long, piercing
cry of terror which echoed through the building and
out into the street.

"Delilah!" Just that one word he spoke, and
raised his hand to throttle her. She read her fate in his
expression. His scars glowed redly, his twisted mouth
opened, exposing his teeth, and she closed her eyes,
unable to bear the sight of his terrible face.

Dimly at the back of his mind something whispered
one word to him—"Elizabeth!" After all she
was—Elizabeth, and his hands dropped to his sides. Then
the guards were on him again, six of them, with Gunzi
making a seventh.

He was invulnerable. With a fierce peal of laughter
he battled with them; the struggling mass of humanity
swayed to and fro. One, two, three, and yet a fourth
went to the floor. He caught hold of a fifth one and
wrapped his arms round the guard, gradually squeezing
the breath out of the man, all the while using him as a
cudgel, but—at last Gunzi saw his opportunity. The
butt of his pistol lifted into the air, and, driven downward
with the full force of the detective's arm, it descended
with a dull thud on Wenzel's defenceless head.

The White Knight swayed indecisively. The helpless
guard dropped to the floor, and then Wenzel too
collapsed, sprawling across the guard.

It seemed the end. A few minutes later Elizabeth
was left alone, as with difficulty the Red guards, not one
of whom but displayed evidence of some injury, carried
away the heavy, helpless form of their prisoner.

The door, having been burst open, would not shut
properly, and Elizabeth became aware of curious heads
peeping in, for now that the Communists had gone the
curious neighbours and other residents of the house
ventured out to ascertain the meaning of the fracas.

Not daring to venture out that night Elizabeth
determined to stay where she was until morning, so she
dragged the bed up to the door, and in that way kept it
closed. In a few minutes' time she had the pleasure of
hearing the unwelcome curiosity-mongers depart.

Her emotions at that moment were indeed mixed,
for while she still trembled over what she believed to
have been a narrow escape from death, she was also
very relieved. By a clever ruse she had not only rid
herself of a man the very sight of whom filled her with
supernatural fear and loathing, but she had also done
a service to one whom she loved—a fact which she had
at last come to realize—the White Knight!

During her wanderings that day she had seen
notices, "Death to the White Knight!" and offers of
a reward for his capture. She had heard the people's
vituperation, the anathemas at the mere mention of his
name, and had realized how the hunt for him was up, how
the Communists were searching for him high and low.

What had she done? Delivered into their hands one
of their own vile crowd, letting them believe that he
was the White Knight. Him they would assuredly
hang, and then, with the White Knight apparently
dead, the chase for him would cease, making his work
of rescue twice as easy—she did not allow herself to
think that through her denunciation an innocent man
would hang. She consoled herself that, anyway, such
as he more than deserved death.

Fondly believing that she had rendered a great
service to her unknown hero, her heart beat with
gratitude to the kindly Fate which had permitted her
to give him a helping hand.

So ran the current of her thoughts, and intermingled
with them were two distinct scenes which constantly
reverted to her mind. The first was of the kiss which
Wenzel had implanted upon her unsuspecting lips.
It had been as sweet as that of a lover, as gentle and
innocent as that of a child, when it might have been
so different, and as a paradox it puzzled her. It was so
absolutely foreign to his nature as she knew it, and it
seemed almost as though she had gazed upon a slimy,
weedy pond, from out the green vegetation of which
had peeped the pure whiteness of a water-lily.

When she closed her eyes she could feel again the
velvet of his lips; if she could have only thrust away the
vision of his mutilated, repulsive features she believed
her heart might have thrillingly responded—then she
chided herself for the very thought. So with an effort
she thrust from her mind the memory of the kiss, but
in its place was substituted, even more vividly, the
moment when he had stood before her, mad with rage.

"Delilah!" Why had he termed her Delilah? She
had betrayed him, but only in self-defence. How could
she have played Delilah to his Samson?

Samson! Him the name justly described—seven
men hanging on to every part of his body, their united
strength against his, yet it had taken a pistol-butt to
defeat him, a treacherous blow from behind.

The next moment all these thoughts were driven
from her mind as she heard a pounding on the door.
Her heart leaped in dismay, then an icy chill settled
round it, while her nerves twitched.

She feared to give her imagination full play. She
seemed to see a scene in the street, the scarred man
recovering from his blow, breaking loose, and returning
for revenge.

The noise ceased abruptly, and suddenly the bed
began to move as the door was pushed inward. A
muttered shriek escaped her lips, and Arnold cursed.
What was the White Knight doing, permitting her to
draw attention to them like that? He pushed still
harder, till at last there was enough room for him to
insert his body, and he squeezed into the room.

There was no Wenzel, only Elizabeth gazing at him
with an expression of horror, which rapidly changed to
one of incredulous amazement and unutterable relief.
The next moment she jumped from the bed and ran
to him, buried her head on his shoulder, and now, with
safety in sight at last, gave way to a paroxysm of tears.

Arnold smoothed her hair compassionately. He would
far sooner Cecile were in her place just for that brief
moment, but at some future date ... and he smiled happily.

As for the White Knight, he could only conclude
that for reasons best known to himself he had changed
his plans at the last moment, and had no doubt that
Elizabeth's subsequent words would give him a clue
which he might follow up.

"At last I have been able to reach you!" he murmured.
The sound of his voice seemed to recall her.
She dried her eyes and drew away.

"How did you know I was here?" she asked.

During the time he had been waiting Arnold had
concocted a story to tell her. He knew it to be thin,
but hoped that, in her relief at being rescued, she
would not be too critical as to details.

"By the most slender coincidence in the world. Of
course, immediately the White Knight, Apor, and
myself arrived at the Château Juhusz—we rescued
Apor, by the way, but of that more presently—we
learned of your disappearance.

"In the meantime the search-parties who had been
looking for you discovered a pile of flowers dropped by
the Budapest road, so, putting two and two together,
we assumed that you had been kidnapped.

"You might have been taken either way, so while I
came to Budapest, the White Knight went the other
way, while Francis and Apor divided the rest of the
surrounding country between them.

"All day long I had been looking for you, then suddenly
I saw you with a very tall man. I followed you
nearly here, and then, just at the last moment, lost you.
All this time I have been making discreet inquiries, till at
last I heard that a tall man, with a lady—and the woman
who told me described you to a nicety—had come into
this building. Here I am. I soon found out that none
of the other rooms sheltered you, and this was the last
one. When I started pushing the door I heard you call
out, and voilà! I knew I had found you at last."

He chuckled to himself. It was not such a bad
attempt after all. He had told his story with an
histrionic ability which emphasized the strongest links
and shaded the weakest points. Mentally he patted
himself on the back.

Yet, had he known it, he need not have worried.
Since at last she felt safe Elizabeth was too full of her
successful scheme in disposing of an enemy and helping
the White Knight to heed very carefully what he
had been telling her.

Almost before he had finished speaking she commenced
to tell him.

"Listen, Monsieur Arnold, I have done a wonderful
thing! During my adventures to-day I learned
how the people here in Budapest rave of and revile
the White Knight, and that there was scarcely one
who was not on the look out for any clue which might
deliver him into the hands of the Commune.

"Listen! Supposing one were delivered into their
clutches whom they believed to be the White Knight!
Supposing there were sufficient proof to make them
have no doubt that the right man was in their hands!
Would this not be of invaluable assistance to your
wonderful leader?"

"Undoubtedly, mademoiselle. Once the chase died
down it would mean that for a time the White Knight
could come and go with far greater safety, and it might
be quite a little while before the Communists, realizing
that a trick had been perpetrated upon them, took up
the hunt again. But, mademoiselle, I scarcely believe
such an idea could be successfully carried out."

Her eyes glowed with triumph. "Yet, Monsieur
Arnold, I have done this!"

"You have done that!" he repeated in surprise.
"Good God!"

"Yes," she continued. "By a most wonderful ruse
I have deceived the Communists.

"While I was imprisoned in this room—I will
explain how that happened later on—I came across a
box of chess-pieces. Naturally there were two white
knights among them. I found also pencil and paper,
and I wrote to Bela Kun and threw the letter through
the window into the road. I told him where he could
find the White Knight, whom I had recognized as such
because I had found a white knight in his pocket; and
to make my betrayal all the more real I pretended I
was doing this for revenge. Also I claimed the reward.

"Bela Kun acted upon my advice. He sent six Red
guards and a detective to the place I mentioned. There
they found the man I had described to them. There
was no doubt in their minds as to the truth, but, even
so, they received further proof, because another white
knight was found in his pockets—a white knight which
I had put there!"

"Good Lord! But, mademoiselle, you are wonderful!
How on earth did you manage to put that piece there?"

She hesitated for a moment. "No," she said at last,
"I do not think I will tell you that."

Arnold did not press the matter. He did not think
it mattered much. Lost in admiration for her skill,
only reckoning the benefit which his leader would
receive from such a scoop, it mattered not to him the
why and the wherefore.

"Mademoiselle, I congratulate you with all my
heart. Your achievement is marvellous! But now for
home—home before the man with whom I saw you
returns?" There was a query in his voice. He wondered
what had happened to Wenzel.

She laughed softly. "You need not worry about
him any more," she said, and Arnold detected a note
of triumph in her voice. For a moment he wondered
at it. Had she, then, disposed of Wenzel? A horrible,
ghastly suspicion arose in his mind.

"Mademoiselle, what do you mean?" His voice
rose shrilly.

Elizabeth looked at him strangely. There was
something in his suddenly anxious expression, a look of
absolute consternation, which frightened her. Even
in the uncertain light of the flickering candle she saw
his face pale and his eyes gleam wildly.

"What do I mean?" she repeated vacantly, and
then faltered. She felt terrified. Arnold's staring
eyes—they seemed to hypnotize her. "Monsieur, I—I
mean that—that the man with whom you saw me, the
man who brought me here by trickery, is the man I
have denounced to the Commune as the White Knight."

Arnold could only stare and stare, his face conveying
nothing but a blank look of inconceivable horror and
dismay. His face was now chalky white, and in contrast to
the pallor his eyes seemed abnormally large—accusing.

What had she done? If he would only speak!

"Oh, Mother in Heaven!" She could bear the
anxiety no longer. "Monsieur Arnold, for Heaven's
sake tell me what is the matter! Your look... I
am afraid, my heart trembles...."

He spoke in emotionless tones, his voice devoid of
any feeling whatsoever:

"Nothing, mademoiselle, nothing, except—the man
you have just denounced into the hands of the Commune
as the White Knight—he—he—he is none other
than—the White Knight himself."

There was a dead silence. Elizabeth did not speak,
simply gazed at Arnold, then, without warning, dropped
to the floor unconscious. And the Englishman laughed
hysterically.

# CHAPTER XVIII

Throughout the night Wenzel's head
ached abominably from the blow it had received,
but by the time morning arrived, and a grinning,
jeering jailer brought him a meagre pittance of mouldy
bread, together with a cup of water, the pain began to
ease somewhat, and he was able to think more clearly.

Purely in passing curiosity he wondered how many
hours it would be before he died. Actually he cared
neither how soon nor when that hour might be. The
death for which he had sought after the passing of
Zita and before the rebirth of love in his breast was
to be his at last.

The few minutes during which he learned from
Elizabeth's own lips the entire depth of her treachery
had more than sufficed to wash away the work of
weeks. Once again he was the sullen automaton,
hating creation, its Maker, and all who breathed and
lived—even the unfortunate victims of the Commune
for whose rescue he was in the main responsible.

He did not think of Elizabeth. Having regained
consciousness his earlier flash of temper died away and
he forgave her, realizing that it was not the action itself
which angered him, but the thought of what had been
the real impulse which had urged her to such a course.
The pitiable story was so easy to read.

In his imagination he could picture her as she
probably had been during his absence, when, somehow or
other, she must have discovered his identity. Aghast—nay,
possibly hypnotized by his personality and satanical
appearance—she had passed her knowledge on to the
Communists, probably shocked that such a man as he
could live and not be struck down by the wrath of God!

Then almost at once his thoughts changed and he
saw it in a different light. He asked himself by what
right Elizabeth had passed judgment upon him. If
she possessed nothing other than a sense of gratitude
toward him for having saved her father from death,
surely this should have been sufficiently strong to have
dissuaded her from the step she had taken.

Yet among all the different aspects of her act which
passed through his mind there was just one which
never occurred to him—the true one. That she had
betrayed him as the White Knight all unknowing that
he was indeed the White Knight in very truth, and,
still further, that Elizabeth had done this that sha
might be of service to him, was never farther from
his thoughts than during the time he gloomed in a
Parliament House cell, waiting for the moment when
he would be haled before Korvin-Klein.

In the meantime the Supreme Soviet Council, in
session at the Hapsburg Palace, was in high spirits.
The White Knight captured at last! It was almost too
good to be true!

There they sat, the rulers of the ruined nation,
discussing what would be the finest form of death to
mete out—and by the finest they meant one which
would give the hated Enemy of the Commune the most
exquisite torture, and themselves the greatest degree of
pleasurable gratification.

On one point they were all agreed. Where or how
he should die did not matter so very much, but
when—it could not be too soon.

"Come, comrades," pleaded Korvin-Klein, "why
not hand him over to me? I can assure you he will not
escape, and I shall see to it that his death is all that
could be desired."

Pogany grunted: "What about Apor? Did your
men keep him safe and sound?"

Klein flushed. "You cannot blame that on me. Who
sent me orders by telephone?—it was lucky I happened
to be there——"

"Unlucky, I think," interrupted Kunfi.

The hunchback shrugged his shoulders. "Look at
it which way you like. As I was saying, who gave me
orders last thing at night to drop him in the Danube
without a moment's delay? Bela Kun! If Comrade
Bela Kun had not 'phoned me he would still have been
safe and sound in the morning."

"Nothing of the sort, Korvin!" said Bela Kun
bluntly. "From the information I received, the White
Knight was coming to you with a forged order for
Apor's release. It must have been just luck that they
were in Parliament Square at the very time your men
were taking him to his death."

"Do you really believe that, my friend?" asked
Klein softly.

"Of course I do!" said Bela Kun truculently.

"Well, I don't, and I don't believe you do either.
You told me yourself that the detective Gunzi came to
you with a story which he had heard from the lips of
the man who, by Gunzi's description of him, was
undoubtedly the White Knight himself. Gunzi was meant
to hear that story. The whole thing was carefully
planned and executed."

"What of it?" Bela Kun frowned. He might be
the Dictator, but in the Soviet they were all "comrades,"
and though it hurt him to acknowledge equality with
the others he could do nothing but suffer it.

"Nothing. I only want to point out that Apor's
escape was not my fault. You fell into the trap and you
alone are to blame. You are Dictator, so must take the
responsibility." Klein's attitude was smoothly peaceful.

It might have developed into a stormy scene, but
Szamuelly whispered into the Dictator's ear, and after
swallowing a lump in his throat Bela Kun accepted the
situation with a shrug of the shoulders.

"Very well, I will take the blame. What matter
the escape of the sprat now that we have caught the
whale?"

"Hear, hear!" agreed Bohm.

"Yes, and let us settle the question as to what to do
with the prisoner."

There was a chorus of confirmative growls, and
several of them would have spoken at once, but
suddenly Szamuelly held up his hand.

"Let me say a few words, comrades," he said.
"Now that we have at last the White Knight in our
hands, why should we not have the full benefit of our
triumph? I have a fancy to see this man, to see him
shiver with fear, perhaps to make him howl with pain.
What do you all say?"

There was not much doubt as to the opinion of the rest
of the Council. Only Agoston raised a protesting voice:

"One minute, comrades! Where do you intend to
see the White Knight?"

"Why, have him brought here, of course!"

"And is that safe?"

Korvin-Klein chuckled. "As I have said once before,
Comrade Agoston, I am willing to take sole responsibility
for his safety. Leave that to me, and if by a
miracle he should escape—hang me instead."

Agoston subsided, and the motion was passed unanimously.
Korvin-Klein left the meeting to transport the
hapless prisoner from one side of the river to the other.

There was ample evidence that Klein valued his
own neck. With all the precautions he took it would
have been not only suicidal for would-be rescuers, but
in addition any such plan would have signed the White
Knight's death-warrant.

Not even daring to use the bridge, Klein commandeered
a ferry-tug. Cleared of all but the crew, it was
firstly occupied by a guard of twelve Terrorists. These
Terrorists, each with a cocked revolver in his hand,
took up positions round the deck. Then was ushered
on board the prisoner, his wrists handcuffed, and, as an
added precaution, not only were his arms bound, but
he was attached by a long chain to Klein himself.

Four men, also with ready revolvers, surrounded Klein
and his prisoner. Their sole instructions were to shoot
the White Knight dead on the slightest hint of rescue.

Finally, eight other guards posted themselves in
various positions, their duty to keep watch over the
crew of the ferry.

From near by Arnold and Elizabeth watched, Arnold
alert for any lead of which he might take advantage,
Elizabeth dull and faint with the turmoil of her
unceasing remorse. So plainly did it seem to her that the
White Knight was going to his death that she clutched
Arnold's arm in an agonized grip and swayed slightly;
for the moment he was afraid she was about to swoon
again.

Hastily he attempted to reassure her, but for all the
cheerfulness he forced into his voice his heart was sick
with anxiety. Too well he realized that he might be
gazing upon his friend for the last time.

The Council awaited with impatience the coming of
the White Knight; but when at last the doors of the
large hall were thrown open, and in the midst of twelve
guards the prisoner was marched within, there was a
stir of interest, not unmixed with sighs of relief and
exclamations of triumph.

"There you are, friends! Have I not carried out my
bargain?" Klein bombastically patted himself on his
narrow chest, then waved his hand in the direction of
Wenzel.

The Communists gazed upon their prisoner with a
glance of unconcealed curiosity, in which was intermingled
a soupçon of puzzlement, a suspicion of disdain.

Standing before them in an attitude of hopeless
dejection the White Knight looked anything but a
formidable opponent. His filthy clothes hung upon him as
they would about a scarecrow, a comparison intensified
by the dirty scarf which covered up the lower part of
his face, and the cap which in a slovenly fashion rested
low on his head, almost covering his eyes.

Kunfi laughed scornfully: "That man the White
Knight! Ha! You are having your wish, Szamuelly.
Why he trembles with fear even before we speak to
him! I am surprised. I expected to see at least a man,
not a bundle of old clothes, a shivering worm."

The humour of the Communists was misplaced.
Themselves wearing stolen clothes—suits from the
wardrobes of the châteaux, shirts, collars, and ties from
the appartements of the rich—their criticism of the
White Knight's garments merited the satire of Voltaire,
or of the more gentle Lamb.

Korvin-Klein now took command. Walking up to
the White Knight he said genially: "So you were
caught napping at last, my friend! You should have
remembered that history usually repeats itself. Exposed
by a woman! You will be in good company, comrade,
when you reach the other side, and will have many
sympathizers."

"I do not know what you mean. Why have you
arrested me? Why am I a prisoner?" The prisoner's
voice was weak and trembling.

Klein laughed derisively, and turned to his
fellow-Communists: "Do you hear that, all of you? He
wants to know why he is arrested. Is that not a good
joke?" He roared, and his mirth was echoed all round
the large hall, even the Terrorists joining in. They
were beginning to be glad of Szamuelly's suggestion.
It looked as though Klein would create an interesting
scene.

The head of the Detective Department turned to the
White Knight again: "Just to humour you, I do not
object to letting you know, comrade. It is because
you are the White Knight, the self-styled Enemy of
the Commune, the champion of the bourgeoisie, the
rescuer of magnates."

There was a fresh outburst of hilarious laughter at
Klein's long recital of the White Knight's many titles.

The prisoner moaned slightly. "I do not know
what you are saying. I am no enemy of the Commune.
I am a good Communist. Have I not plenty of friends
to prove it? Please don't kill me, oh, please, Comrade
Korvin-Klein! I am a poor innocent man who does
not know what you mean, who has never done a crown's
worth of harm to anyone except the bourgeoisie, and
whose only fault is desiring a pretty woman."

Klein looked at him queerly: "I suppose you don't
deny you were arrested last night by the Red guards?"

"Of course I don't," whined the other.

"And do you deny having fought with the Red guards
to escape from them? Is that your idea of innocence?"

"I—I was nearly drunk, comrade. I met a friend
just earlier in the evening, a tall man, nearly as tall as
myself, who took me to a place to get a drink. He
gave me two full bottles of wine all to myself."

"And then?" asked Klein sarcastically.

"Then he asked me if I would like to earn ten
English pounds. I said yes. He put something in
my pocket, and told me a woman was expecting him
at such-and-such an address, but that he could not go.
Then he hinted that if I made myself nice to her—well,
Comrade Klein, you know what happens when one is
nice to a woman."

Some one laughed aloud, and many of the listeners
smiled, but no one spoke. Most of them were too
interested. Bela Kun, Szamuelly, and Korvin-Klein
were the exceptions. These three more astute men
were conscious of a cold, chilly feeling.

"Well, well!" Korvin-Klein looked at the prisoner
steadily. "Supposing we believe your story, perhaps
you can describe the man who gave you the money and
told you to go to the room of this woman."

"Certainly, comrade, certainly," said the other
eagerly. "He was a broad, tall man, nearly as tall as
me, in fact, but he was hideously ugly, his face was
transfigured with scars. He was a monster. It nearly
made me sick to look at him."

"Hell!" shouted Szamuelly, "but he has described
the White Knight exactly. We have heard the same
description from Garami and Gunzi, the detective from
Aszod. Besides, Bela Kun has seen the White Knight."

"Of course I have," growled Bela Kun. "I can
see the rogue's face before me now. Bah! the man is
merely describing himself: tightening the noose round
his neck. Take off that scarf!"

With rough hands Klein seized the filthy scarf from
the neck of the other and tore it off. There was a
stupefied silence. All eyes turned in the direction of
the prisoner, then, simultaneously, switched round to
the Dictator.

Bela Kun gazed with bewildered eyes at the man
who stood before him, bound and chained, and then
rubbed his eyes frantically. The prisoner, the man
they believed to be the White Knight, had not a single
scar of any kind apparent on his face or neck.

"Good God! Good God!" Bela Kun bellowed to
Klein, but his next words, in the hurry to escape, stuck
in his throat, so that he merely spluttered and choked.
Then, with an effort, he cleared his throat:

"Good God, Klein! that man is—is not the White
Knight after all! We have all been hoaxed."

There was an instantaneous uproar. The members
of the Council sprang to their feet, chairs went
clattering to the ground, and the hall echoed and re-echoed
with the babel of tongues. There were shouts of rage;
recriminations were hurled to and fro, while Bela Kun
and Korvin-Klein shrank away from the volume of
hard words thrown at them.

Many, in their rage, pounded on the tables with
their fists, others gabbled incoherently, and there was
not one present who did not help, in some way or other,
to swell the noise till the din became dreadful.

Only the prisoner remained quiet, his face twisted
with anguish, and white with the pasty pallor of fear.
But no one questioned the fact that he most emphatically
was not the White Knight; of this there was not
the slightest atom of doubt.

There were no disfiguring scars zigzagging across
his face, transforming it into a satanic and horrific
mask. It did not repel, or create a violent sensation
of monstrous iniquity. Indeed, his face was, if
anything, inclined to be handsome, his complexion more
or less pure, and, perhaps, if it had not been for its
almost deathly whiteness, it might have even created an
impression of health.

The commotion died away. Szamuelly, his voice
seething with fury, spoke at length to Bela Kun:

"There cannot be a mistake, Bela Kun. How can
you prove that these words are correct?"

"Easily. If you do not believe me call Gunzi and
Garami, both of whom have seen and spoken to the
White Knight."

"Right!" said Korvin-Klein, his mouth twisting
with an ugly snarl. "I will send for them both. Then
we shall see."

Rapidly he issued his orders. The prisoner, his
attitude already easier, was taken on one side, while the
members of the Supreme Soviet Council discussed
the situation.

"Hang him anyway, White Knight or no White
Knight. That's what I say, my friends. At any rate
we shall be safe." As usual Szamuelly voted for death,
and doubtless the others would have agreed—for
another life more or less made no difference—but the
foxy Korvin-Klein thought differently.

"Wait a minute, comrades. Listen to what I have
to say. Let us assume for the minute that a mistake
has been made, that the man there," and he jerked
his thumb in the direction of the prisoner, "is not the
White Knight. What does that mean? One of two
things. Either we have been hoaxed—in which case,
hang the man—or else last night the White Knight
discovered that, in some way, this woman was betraying
him, and knowing of the trap he really did persuade
this man to take his place.

"As I have already said, if it can be proved that
the first supposition is correct—well, I suggest a little
better than hanging. But I ask you, friends, would
any sane man deliberately put himself into our hands
for the sake of hoaxing us?

"Again, in the second case, the prisoner might as well
die. Now suppose it were all a genuine mistake on the
part of the White Knight—after all, I dare say he likes
a woman as much as the rest of us—do you not think it
possible that he may try and meet this man to discover
how he got on with the White Knight's lady-love?

"Let him free, if it be proved that he is innocent.
Then let me set a detective to track him. Sooner or
later he may meet the White Knight. Then we shall
know what to do."

The point of the chief detective's arguments was
too forceful not to impress even the most obtuse mind,
and, after a little hesitation, that course was agreed upon
by the Council.

Soon afterward came Gunzi. In the meantime Korvin-Klein
replaced the muffler round the prisoner's chin.

Gunzi was asked whether the prisoner was the man
he had arrested the night before.

The detective looked surprised. "Certainly," he
answered, with an assured air.

"And he is the same man whom you saw drinking
in the beer-tavern the night before?"

Gunzi looked at him carefully. Again he answered
in the affirmative, and his tone was still as confident.

"Very well," said Klein, "now take off his scarf."

Slowly Gunzi unwound it, and as its last fold exposed
the face of its wearer the detective started back
with surprise.

"But—but—but——" he stammered, and stopped.

"Well!" Korvin-Klein barked out the word, and
Gunzi looked nervous. The detective eyed the prisoner,
carefully noting every detail of the face. Then at last
he turned.

"Except for one thing," he said, "this man might
be the White Knight. In many respects he is similar
to the Enemy of the Commune, not only in build, but
also in facial expression, but—he is not the same man."

* * * * * *

Crowds were clustered round the Hapsburg Palace,
for already it had been bruited far and wide that the
White Knight was within, appearing before the Soviet
Council. Among those who stood well to the forefront
were Arnold and Elizabeth.

At first the chatter of the people was jubilant. Then
men from out of the palace, dashing to and fro, excited
the attention of the throng, and soon afterward
the whisper went round that everything was not as it
should be.

"What is it? Why is every one talking so angrily
and gesticulating so?" Elizabeth asked.

Arnold shook his head. "I don't understand. Wait!
I will try to find out."

Not far from them was a small group which, judging
by the number of people who approached questioningly,
possessed more or less authoritative information.
To it Arnold strolled casually.

"What is the matter, comrade?" he asked of one man.

The Communist swore. "I don't know, but from
what I can make out the man they arrested last night
is not the White Knight after all. May God smite
down the fools for their mistake if it's true!"

Arnold's heart leaped, but the next moment he was
convinced that the man was making up the story to
provoke an interest in himself. He moved on, but
again and again the tale was the same. The prisoner
inside was not the White Knight!

He turned back to Elizabeth. "I do not understand
it," he whispered. "Do you know what they are
saying? That the man they captured last night is not
the White Knight."

Elizabeth's hand flew to her lips. Only with an
effort did she keep from calling out in surprise. For
a few seconds her face beamed with a celestial happiness,
but as quickly it altered, and there returned the
engraven look of hopeless despair.

"I cannot believe it, Arnold. I, who was there,
know that the man with the scars, the White Knight
himself, was captured. For some reason best known
to themselves the Communists are spreading the
rumour—perhaps because they wish to discourage
attempts at rescue."

After that the time passed slowly. From where they
were Arnold and Elizabeth could see men coming and
going into the palace. Firstly, although they did not
know it, went in Gunzi, then later Garami. More
time elapsed. Suddenly Arnold gripped Elizabeth's
wrist in a steely grasp.

"Whatever you do," he muttered hoarsely, "don't
make a sound, but—look!"

Coming out of the palace door was the White Knight,
but only those two knew it. To the rest of the crowd
he was merely another man making his exit from the
palace.

He made his way somewhat in the direction where
stood Arnold and Elizabeth, but, as he came nearer,
Arnold's heart turned cold with disappointment. Man
though he was, he felt the tears springing to his eyes, so
great was the shock.

"Oh, God!" he whispered. "I have made a mistake.
But in the distance he was the image of Geoffrey."

Perhaps his eyes were clouded temporarily by his
feeling of despondency, or perhaps her eyes were more
discerning. At any rate she recognized, not the face,
but the garments.

"They are his clothes. I will swear it. Oh, Heaven!
Do I not recognize every garment, every patch, every
tear? Monsieur, that man must be the White Knight."

Arnold shook his head. "God knows, mademoiselle,
I would willingly believe it, but—he is not the White
Knight. Look at his face!"

When Elizabeth looked she had to agree. That man
was not the White Knight.

The hours passed, and gradually the crowd dispersed,
for at last it was officially confirmed—the
Soviet had not caught the White Knight.

With the passing of time Arnold believed more and
more that the report was trickery on the Council's part.
It was the White Knight who had been captured. Had
he not seen his leader a few hours ago at the ferry,
surrounded by two dozen Terrorists?

Now, with the other people gone, for Elizabeth and
him to stop where they were would have been making
themselves conspicuous.

"Come," he said, and his voice was expressionless.
"Let us go. We must not stop here."

"But where?"

He spread out his arms. "Back to the room
where—where Geoffrey was—captured."

"That will be my—my penance," she whispered.

"I know nowhere else," he apologized. "I must
guard you as I would guard myself, for—for Geoffrey
will be expecting that of me."

Somehow they made their way back, though the
streets were crowded, and their despondent spirits
made the work of threading through all the harder.
Stumbling up the stairs they reached the room and
threw open the door. Arnold started. Sitting on the
bed was the man whom they had seen in the crowd
round the palace.

"What are you doing here?" he asked angrily.

Now that the man had cast aside not only his scarf,
but also his hat, he could see all the more easily that,
despite a slight resemblance to the White Knight, the
man on the bed could no more be Wenzel than he
himself. Not only was this man's face free from
blemishes, but so was his head. Arnold knew well the
vivid, blood-red scar which scraped Wenzel's scalp,
and in the mass of straight hair—almost black when
compared to the shade of Geoffrey's curly head—there
was not the slightest sign of it.

"Why shouldn't I be here?" mumbled the man.

"Because it happens to be my room. Come on,
comrade—outside!" Arnold was in no mood for
argument, and there was a dangerous glitter in his
eyes which should have warned the intruder.

The other man shrugged his shoulders. "I was
here before you," he said. "Mademoiselle can prove
that." He nodded his head in the direction of Elizabeth.

Arnold clenched his fists. "What do you mean?"

"What I say, my friend, that I was here last night,
and thanks to her ladyship"—his tone was
hard—"arrested in mistake for the White Knight."

"You—arrested in mistake—but——" Then it
was true, and the White Knight was not in prison.
But, in that case, where was the White Knight?

Elizabeth could have spoken in joy, but Arnold
stopped her. He mistrusted the man. It almost seemed
as if there were a trap somewhere. He felt suddenly
afraid.

"I do not know what you say," he said coolly. "This
lady has never met the White Knight in all her life."

The man yawned. "You said that very well, but—it
isn't really the truth, is it, Arnold?" And then
Arnold knew that despite the evidence of his eyes the
man who sat on the bed really was the White Knight.

# CHAPTER XIX

The faint light from the guttering candle was
barely sufficient to illuminate the tiny kitchen,
for a draught blew in through a broken
window, twisting and flicking the flame from side to
side. Yet, despite the shadows, there was no mistaking
the figure of the man who sat at the table, his head
buried in his outstretched arms, his shoulders shaking
with emotion.

Through the cracked window watched the White
Knight, and the pathos of the scene hurt him, the
silent grief, the loneliness of the cottage, the very
solitude of the man—a sorrow shared is a sorrow
halved, and yet there seemed no one to help carry the
burden of the unhappy man within.

Szamuelly in his Death Train had come and gone—the
White Knight had missed him by an hour—and
somehow Wenzel could not doubt that the anguish he
now witnessed was a direct result of that flying visit.

He moved round to the door, and gently twisting
the handle pushed and entered.

The man at the table glanced up, and the White
Knight saw that his face was twisted with pain.

Dully he looked Wenzel up and down. "What do
you want?" he asked tonelessly.

"A word or two with you," Wenzel replied.

Immersed in the depths of his own thoughts, the
man did not understand. "What do want?" he asked
for the second time.

Tragedy tinged the air, and Wenzel felt its influence.
"A few words, comrade," he said quietly. "I shall
not keep you long."

After a time his meaning seemed to sink into the
man's consciousness, for suddenly the corners of his
lips puckered downward. "Go away, friend. I talk
to no one to-night."

Wenzel did not move. "Yet I would ask you to
listen. Tell me one thing—when I looked through
the window I saw your shoulders shaking; your eyes
seem red with weeping. A man does not give way
without good cause. Tell me your sorrow."

The man's eyes glittered, and he half rose from his
seat. "What the Hell does it matter to you? Get
out!" he muttered savagely. "Leave me to myself." But
from the look of desperation in his eyes Wenzel
divined his purpose.

"No, my friend, not until I have spoken with you.
You must not kill yourself. It is not God's will."

"God!" The man sneered. "There is no God, or
if there is He has forgotten Hungary. Who are you
to talk to me of God? Have you had a son butchered
to death before your very eyes? Have you heard
your son crying for death, shrieking with pain?—God,
the murderous hounds! The devils!"

"You mean—Szamuelly?"

For a moment Wenzel regretted mentioning the
name, for suddenly the man's expression changed.
Sadness and heartache dissolved from his face. Instead,
his features became distorted by a spasm of unrelenting
hatred. His eyes gleamed wickedly, his lips drew back
in a snarl, exposing his coarse and rotted teeth, while
his breath hissed in the intensity of his feelings.

"Szamuelly! Szamuelly!" He choked. "May
his entrails rot in Hell! May the vampires suck his
blood! May God blast his soul! I curse him, he and all
of his, his sons and his sons' sons; his daughters, his
daughters' daughters, and all who may speak to them in
friendship! Curse him, I say! Curse him!" With a
sobbing cry the man's head fell on to his crooked arms.

Wenzel neither spoke nor moved. Gradually the
paroxysm passed, then the man looked up again, tears
frankly falling from his eyes, and dropping, with dismal
splashes, upon the rough wooden table.

"The only son left to me here in the village. Pity
the grief of an old man, friend, an old man who, five
years ago, had a house full of healthy sons around him.
Six there were—from twelve years of age to thirty.
They were not a marrying sort, so remained with their
old father.

"Six of them, five years ago. Two killed in 1915,
one in 1916, and another in 1917—blast the War!
Four sons out of five—and all for nothing. Have we
not lost after all? Is not Hungary beaten, conquered,
ground down? Only one came back to me; he, together
with the youngest and me—we were going to start
life anew, but, my God! the eldest was forced to stop
in Budapest and join the railway, to sweat and toil for
Bela Kun.

"I wish to Heaven both he and the youngest had
been killed in the War! Better to die fighting, say I,
battling against enemies, than to—to be tortured to
death in front of the eyes of your father by your own
countrymen. Yes, comrade, that is what happened to my
youngest. Just seventeen years of age, and
Szamuelly—Szamuelly had him hanged because he wouldn't
wear the Red cockade. He would have killed me,
because I too wouldn't have worn the cursed colour,
but the swine was in a hurry.

"'Tell what I have done to all would-be Whites,'
he said, with a laugh. That's what he said to me, the
father of the poor butchered boy. Oh, Jesus Christ,
why have You deserted us in our hour of need? Why
do You not smite these heretics who spit on Your
Cross? ... And now, comrade, what do you want?"

It was as though the old man suddenly recollected
that there was another man present, for he ended with
a snarl.

"I want—the help of you and your remaining son,
comrade—I am the White Knight."

The man gazed at him with incredulous eyes, his
trembling lips, his shaking hands testifying to the shock
he had received, but, as the fact filtered into his brain,
he dropped suddenly to his knees, and seizing Wenzel's
hand in his own, he kissed it passionately, again and
again, until Wenzel, in embarrassment, withdrew it.

"The White Knight! The White Knight!" With
the assistance of the White Knight the old man shakily
rose to his feet and tottered back to his chair. "God
be praised! You, Excellency, you are the man who has
sworn to kill Szamuelly, you, Excellency, are the White
Knight, the Enemy of the Commune, and you need my
help, and the help of my—only son...." He drew
himself up and gazed with steadfast eyes at Wenzel.
"God forgive me!" he muttered piously. "God
forgive me for my words. He has not forgotten
us.... And now, Excellency?"

His voice finished briskly, and the White Knight
knew that he need fear no betrayal from this man.

"Firstly," he said, "your promise. You must not
kill yourself."

The man gazed at him with reproach. "Excellency,
I am yours to command."

"Good! You are a railwayman?"

"Yes, Excellency."

"You are in the telegraph service?"

"Yes, Excellency."

"And your son? I believe he also is in the telegraph
department at the Budapest terminus. Is that not so?"

"Yes, Excellency."

"Good! Your name, my friend, it is Hervesi?"

"Correct, Excellency."

"Now, listen, Hervesi; tell me firstly how you knew
that I had sworn to kill Szamuelly."

"I heard a week ago from my son in Budapest,
Excellency. He met a man named Gunzi, who was
searching for the White Knight. 'For why?' asked
my son. 'Because he threatens to kill our great
Szamuelly,' replied this Gunzi. Then my son, so he
told me, chuckled inwardly, and made inquiries about
the White Knight, and heard of all your wonderful
deeds, Excellency, so when I saw him three days ago
he told me all."

"Does he hear much news?"

"Plenty, Excellency. He sleeps in the same room
as a man named Nyistor, a labourer who is now Assistant
Commissary for Agriculture."

The White Knight smiled. Matters were turning
out far better than he had ever expected.

"What thinks your son, then, Hervesi, of the Commune?"

The railwayman's face twisted into a snarl. "As I,
Excellency. He fought for glorious Hungary, for
your country and mine, not for these filthy Russian
murderers."

"Not my country, Hervesi," said Wenzel quietly.

"Not your country, Excellency?" The man looked
puzzled. "I do not understand."

"I am not Hungarian—I am British."

"You—British? Then you are—an enemy!" Instantly
Hervesi's face became suspicious.

"Not an enemy of you or any other honest
Hungarian, Hervesi. Only an enemy of the Commune.
I—I was engaged to a Hungarian lady, Hervesi, but
when I got back from the War I found that the
Communists had—killed her, killed her as surely as they
killed your son."

"The swine, the swine! So that is why you help
us? We Hungarians never wanted to fight the British,
Excellency, but we were the puppets of German
intrigue. Why did England fight us? We were—we
are friends of England."

"England does not forget the fact, Hervesi," but
Wenzel said it with a heavy heart, for even then the
Peace Conference was disintegrating the unhappy
country, forgetting all ties of past friendship in the wild,
mad effort to punish the war-makers—and in doing
so punished only the cat's-paws of Germany, while
Germany herself—— At that stage the past was not
yet past, and Wenzel hastened to turn the subject.

"You are a thinker, Hervesi. Good, it is so much
the better. But listen. It is true what your son has
told you: I have sworn to kill Szamuelly. But my
task is difficult. In his Death Train he tears across
the country, never remaining in any one place, only just
long enough to kill honest Hungarians, and then he
is gone again. I cannot catch him up. Even to-night
I am an hour late, even now Szamuelly is many miles
away from me.

"I must have an ally. Your son can help me. Whenever
he can obtain news of Szamuelly's destination he
can wire through to you, so that I can be there first,
and by God's will I can fulfil my oath. Do you think
he will do that for me, Hervesi?"

"Excellency, I answer for him as I answer for
myself. Szamuelly must die," and all unconsciously
he uttered the words which for weeks now had haunted
the White Knight.

* * * * * *

The country was stirring; the faint rumblings of
discontent were growing louder and more insistent,
the seeds sown by the counter-revolutionaries were
ripening for the crop. The honest peasants were tired
of selling their goods for the worthless paper money
of the Soviet, the workmen were realizing that fifty
Soviet crowns were of little more use than five blue
crowns of the old Austro-Hungarian Bank.

The knell of the Commune was sounding, the tocsin
for liberty ringing, and the people of Hungary were
muttering angrily, ominously. Only in Budapest was
the call still unheeded, though not unheard, for there
Bela Kun and his cronies ruled supreme, and people
were afraid to express their feelings for fear of
reprisals—revenge which might come from Cserni, whose red
car continually raced the streets of the city, from
Szamuelly with his Death Train, or from the inhuman
spider Korvin-Klein, who sat in his web devouring the
virulent as well as the inoffensive Whites with an
impartiality only equalled by his insatiable appetite.

Away in distant parts the Whites were openly
preparing for battle. The Vends of Western Hungary,
forced to flee to Austria, were being joined by Hungarian
officers commanded by Baron Lehar. In Szeged, where
the fuel of counter-revolution burned brightest, a
White Government was being formed, with Nicholas
Horthy as Minister of War and Paul Teleki as Foreign
Secretary, while Generals Soos and Gombos were
organizing the White Army.

If the members of the Supreme Soviet Council, kept
fully acquainted with the situation by their numerous
spies, were experiencing the first warnings of their
coming doom, under the thrall of the ranting Bela Kun
they hesitated to betray the fact.

With an incredible faith in his waning star, to the
Dictator, any omens of a dark future were hidden
by roseate-hued visions of a World Commune, with
himself second only to Lenin or Trotsky. With an
unbounded nerve, of which one could scarcely dream
him capable, he demanded of the Allies the fulfilment
of their promise that on the cessation of hostilities
against the Czechs the Tisza should be evacuated by
the Rumanians, for day by day, keeping pace with the
atrocities committed by the Communists upon their
own people, the enemies of Hungary, Czecho-Slovakia,
Serbia, and Rumania, were advancing on all sides,
sometimes repulsed, but more often gaining the victory
over the less organized Red guards.

That Clemenceau, President of the Peace Conference,
treated his message with disdain, ordering that Hungary
should observe the conditions of the Armistice before he
would treat with the Soviet Council, meant nothing to the
impudent Dictator, who ironically replied to Clemenceau
that he, Bela Kun, doubted the power of the President
to impose his will upon the Rumanians or the Czechs.

Then, in defiance of the Peace Conference, he
issued orders for mobilization, and upon the walls of
Hungary's villages and towns appeared huge, glaring
posters of a sailor's figure, running and holding aloft a
Red flag, which bore the inscription: "FEGYUERBE!" Ex-soldiers,
who for long years had fought the Serbians
and Russians, gazed upon the crude recruiting pictures,
read the call "To Arms," and realized that fighting
must continue, even while their friends and relations
who remained at home were stabbed in the back by the
self-chosen leaders of the nation for whom they would
have to fight.

Thus Bela Kun and his satellites failed to heed the
writing on the wall—the passing of the Bavarian Soviet,
the miscarriage of the Austrian Soviet, the failure of the
Russian Soviet to come to their assistance—and laughed
at the Allies, at the threatening armies of the Whites,
at the invading hordes of the neighbouring Slavs.

There was only one who really sensed the change—Szamuelly;
in an effort to intimidate the recalcitrants
his Death Train tore from one end of the country to
the other, and all the time he hanged, butchered,
murdered, and the trail of corpses he left in his tracks grew
longer and longer.

From Szamuelly and his hangmen the innocent and
guilty alike fled in terror; and the volume of their
curses grew louder, till their reverberating echoes
reached the ears of the spies, who in due course then
reported to the fiend himself.

At the constant repetition of the threats he merely
laughed: it was not the individual he feared, but the
concerted whole. In his lightning trips he did not
fail to notice the signs of the growing White menace,
and so he said to Bela Kun, "Kill! Kill! Kill!" setting
a good example.

Yet his day was to come, and Szamuelly had a hint
of it one morning when he received a letter addressed
to him at the Batthyany Palace.

He slit open the envelope. Inside was a plain post
card on which were written six words only:

Szamuelly shall die.

THE WHITE KNIGHT

Szamuelly felt a surge of murderous hate toward the
sender, and sent for Gunzi.

When the detective arrived Szamuelly handed over
the card to the other.

"Look, Comrade Gunzi, look! Here is another
message which I have to-day received through the
post."

The detective took and inspected it with a quizzical
eye. "He seems certain of himself," he muttered calmly.

Szamuelly smashed his fist down upon the table
before him. "Do you think I sent for you to hear
that?" he shouted furiously, but to the acute ears of
the detective there was an undercurrent of fear in the
voice of the other.

"Well, what do you want of me?" he asked coolly.

"Is there still no trace of the braggart?"

Gunzi shook his head, and his lips tightened. "Not
yet, comrade. He is as elusive as a will-o'-the-wisp,
yet I shall trace him in the end. At Aszod, had not
Gonnard fled to Budapest, I should have arrested the
White Knight, and by now he would be but a memory."

"Bah, child's talk! Did you not arrest him here, in
Budapest itself; did you not actually imprison him in
a cell underneath Parliament House, and did not you
and the fools on the Council let him free against my
advice? I should have hanged that man whether he
had been the White Knight or not."

Gunzi bit his lip. "Who could have foreseen that
the White Knight had such a cunning trick up his
sleeve? That day in the Hapsburg Palace I would
have sworn an oath it was not he."

"Even now I do not understand. I cannot get
Korvin-Klein to talk. Was it or was it not the White
Knight who appeared before us that morning?"

"It was. My men trailed him for a time, and then—he
disappeared entirely. They reported to me. I hurried
to the room where I had arrested him the night before
and there I found a message from him thanking me
for my help in his escape."

"Yes, yes. All that I know. But what of his scars,
the difference in his expression, in the man himself?"

Gunzi shrugged his shoulders. "The White Knight
could most easily tell you that. Myself, I have only a
theory."

"And that?"

"I believe that the White Knight's scars were
nothing but grease-paint. During the night he wiped
them off."

"Good God!" Even into Szamuelly's unwilling
eyes there crept a glow of admiration, till suddenly
he remembered the message he had just received, and
shivered.

"Gunzi, you must catch him soon. I begin to feel
nervous."

"Why should you? You are surrounded by reliable
men. I do not think even the White Knight can pierce
through your gang of Terror Boys."

"But the White Knight is uncanny."

Gunzi sneered. "The White Knight is human. He
baffled me for a short time at Aszod, but in the end I
got on his track. Give me a week or two longer and
I shall bring him to you, and the next time... I hope
the Council will take your advice, Comrade Szamuelly,
and hang him anyway, right man or not." A spasm
of rage convulsed his face. "God! to think we had
the White Knight in our hands and let him go!"

* * * * * *

Hidden in a small copse some hundred yards distant
from the track, two men waited for the Death Train,
which was due to thunder toward them at any moment.
From where they were they could just see the red light
which sent out its warning ray from between the iron
parallels, and behind which lay a felled tree.

"Why the red light, Geoffrey, why the warning?
Would it not be better to let the Death Train crash
into the obstruction, and so send it, Szamuelly, and all
his hangmen to Hell together?"

"I wish I dared, Arnold, but I am afraid to take the
risk. The time-table is at the best of times irregular.
Supposing instead of the Death Train it were another
we wrecked? Suppose an unexpected express were to
come the other way? No, no, Arnold! I must rely upon
this," and he fondly patted the rifle which was stretched
out in front of him, significantly turned in the direction
of the barricade.

"Do you think you will get the opportunity—that
your courage will not fail you at the last moment?"

The White Knight laughed softly: "Would you hesitate
to kill a rat, Arnold? To me the life of Szamuelly
is less than that of the meanest rodent. As for the rest,
I can only hope that he will not suspect the truth and
cringe into the farthest corner of the coach."

"Will not your constant warnings prepare him for
all eventualities? Tell me, Geoffrey, would not a swift,
silent blow be just as feasible? I do not understand the
reason of your repeated messages to him."

"When should I ever get an opportunity for the
swift blow? He is surrounded night and day. From
the very first he has had his men under an Army
discipline, and set guards. No prince threatened by
anarchists has ever been better protected. No, Arnold,
do not think I play for melodramatic effect.

"No will however strong, no courage however deep,
is proof in the long run against the insidious prickings
of fear. Threats, if sustained long enough, are like the
dripping of water on the hardest rock, the succession
of footsteps upon the toughest stone.

"Sooner or later his nerve will crack. He will begin
to suspect even his own men, and when suspicion once
enters the mind nothing will drive it out again. When
that time comes he will hesitate to sleep lest during
those hours a knife should be plunged into his bosom.
He will fear to eat lest the food should be poisoned.
When he reaches that stage he will flee from the Death
Train, from his Terror Boys, perhaps even from Budapest,
and then he will be my prey, and I shall kill him
with more pleasure than I should have in exterminating
a rabid dog."

"That is, of course, if you do not succeed to-night,
or at any other time?"

"To-night is my one opportunity. The trick will
not work twice."

"Why not shoot him when he stops at the villages?
From a near-by window..."

"And if I missed? Arnold, I have seen that butcher
hang men and torture children for the mere love of
cruelty. He scarcely seeks excuses for his vile work.
What would happen to the villagers if, as I have said,
I missed him? How many would he hang in revenge?"

"I am dull-witted to-night, Geoffrey."

"You are too happy to think of anyone or anything,
my dear chap," Wenzel said softly; then he sighed.
"I envy you, Arnold, but I am glad, deuced glad!
You have earned your reward and Cecile...."

Arnold laughed happily: "I had not meant to say
a word to her, but last night ... you must have noticed
the moon, Geoffrey; it seemed to have a smirk on its
face, and when I looked at it, it seemed to wink at me
and then grin derisively. The next thing I knew the
words were out of my mouth, Cecile was in my arms,
her lips pressing against mine.... I wonder why I
am telling you all this, Geoffrey? I had always thought
that a man's sensations on such a night were sacred to
himself alone."

In his heart Wenzel agreed, for every word that
Arnold uttered flayed his soul, seared into his heart,
and reminded him of another night when the moon
had winked at him in the same way, and a similar
torrent of passionate words had forced themselves from
his lips.... Memories! Memories! Was he never
going to be free of them? Memories of Zita!
Memories of Elizabeth! His heart cried out in agony,
but his voice was calm when he answered:

"Because your happiness is mine, Arnold." His
lips curved ironically as he wondered dimly whether
his lips had ever uttered a greater lie.

There was a short silence, but Arnold was bubbling
over with too great a joy to remain quiet very long.

"Do you know, Geoffrey, this is the first time we
have talked together, alone like this, since the day you
walked free from the hands of the Communists? All
this time my curiosity has remained unappeased. How
in the name of God did you deceive them? Your—your
scars, Geoffrey, what happened to them? Why
have you avoided the château? Why have you restlessly
moved about from place to place, as though some
one forced you ever onwards? Before then I—I had
thought——"

"Stop!" Wenzel heard the fatal words before they
were even uttered. "As my friend, Arnold, do not
question me; do not endeavour to awaken cherished
thoughts which must be for ever buried and forgotten."

"Geoffrey, I am sorry! I did not realize. I——"

"Arnold, please!" His voice was weary. "Remember
this. I have no personal feelings left. They
are dead, killed in the first case by the Communists,
and then again by——" Just in time he stopped
himself. Another moment and he might have mentioned
Elizabeth's name. "As for the scars... Arnold, I
battled with myself for hours that morning. When I
awoke in a cell and realized that the Communists had
me at last, I knew it to be but a matter of hours before
I should be dispatched from this world, but I was not
unprepared. When I first became the White Knight I
knew that the possibility of my being captured
eventually was a hundred to one on, so I took necessary
precautions. But for one thing, however, I should
never have made use of them.

"You never suspected my down-at-heel boots as
harbouring any means of escape, did you, Arnold?
As a matter of fact, they were not down-at-heel, for both
heels were hollow. Inside were two thick sticks of
grease-paint, Arnold. I rubbed them well into the
wounds; rubbed and rubbed until at last each scar was
erased in turn, the thick grease-paint effectively hiding
them. After that I powdered them well, so that nothing
was noticeable except a white pallor over the whole of
my face. Then, on top of it all, dirt; not just a coat of
dust which might wipe off, but thick, ingrained dirt.
Have you ever rubbed dirt into a greasy substance?
It was perfectly effective, as you know."

"Good Lord, it is amazing! Yet—forgive me if
I hurt your feelings—that much I understand; but the
wound across your scalp, your eyebrow, and—and—your
twisted cheek?" He choked slightly; it was hard
to mention such things to the White Knight himself.

Wenzel smiled softly to himself. Poor old Arnold!
How his words stumbled!

"I had prepared for all that, Arnold. I had ready
a little pad, a tiny strip of flesh-coloured canvas, on to
which was stuck a not inconsiderable portion of my
own hair from another part of the scalp. Liquid gum,
similar to that used in theatrical circles, was more than
sufficient to keep the shaped canvas in its place. Then
I dyed my hair, parted it on the other side—what
parting I could induce my cropped hair to display—brushed
the remainder the other way, and that scar
was concealed.

"My eyebrow I treated in exactly the same way.
As for my mouth, a tiny little ivory chip inside did the
trick, by pulling and keeping the flesh more or less as
it should be naturally. Incidentally, it hurt like the
Devil, but against that it helped disguise my voice, so
it served a double purpose.

"My changed appearance plus a likely story and
a possibility of leading them on the track of the
White Knight earned me my freedom. I had but
one thing to fear—that they would hang me from
pure spite, but—I must be more than a bad penny,
for here I am."

Had Arnold been less in a state of profound fascination
he might have detected the bitter tinge which
crept into his leader's last words; even now there was
still one question he wished to ask.

"Geoffrey, old man, I have never heard anything
more marvellous in all my life, yet won't you tell me
why you hesitated, that morning in your cell, to make
your plans for escape, and what, at the last moment,
made you change your mind?" There was a wistful
note in his voice. In his present happiness he wished
all his friends to share it.

Purposely the White Knight ignored the first part of
the question. "The thought of this moment," Wenzel
replied, and again he patted his rifle. "Szamuelly must
die." Suddenly he shot out his hand and grasped
Terhune's arm. "Listen!" he said harshly.

From afar off they heard a faint murmuring, a
tremulous, echoing vibration.

"The Death Train!" whispered Arnold.

Wenzel laughed throatily, and for the first time in
weeks there was a happy timbre in his tone.

The noise of the shrieking monster pounding toward
them through the night grew louder, and some way off
its fiery beacon flashed into view as it rounded a curve.
Swaying in its stride it thundered forward; then with
a wild groan, wrung protestingly from it by the fierce
application of the brakes, it slowed up until it came to
a stop, scarcely fifty yards from the warning red light,
snorting its fury into the air.

The immediate neighbourhood of the Death Train
was lit up by the blaze of light from within, and the
two watchers were able to see the hurried exit of several
men from the second coach, clambering down to the
ground and running forward into the night.

With a steady hand the White Knight swung round
the sight of his rifle; unwaveringly it pointed to the
exit of the first coach, and there waited....

The men who had rushed forward to investigate
returned once again into the radius of the light. They
were gesticulating wildly. A window swung up, a
smooth, purring voice, which the White Knight believed
to be that of Szamuelly, rang out, questioning.

The rifle swung round, pointing significantly toward
the man at the window, but the White Knight was
not sure, so he waited. There must be no mistake that
night.

The man withdrew his head from the window.
Almost immediately he emerged from the obscurity of
the exit, and the White Knight saw that he had made
no mistake. It was indeed Szamuelly!

Szamuelly was talking excitedly, but he was standing
still; the rifle moved slightly, the White Knight's
finger quivered for the fatal pull, but—the Devil
protects his own! At the sight of the arch-fiend Wenzel's
wrath blazed up anew, shaking him in its grip. A tiny
shadow floated before his eyes, the sharp outline of the
Communist against the light became dim and obscure.

Desperately the White Knight realized his prey was
moving back into the coach again, doubtless to sleep
while his men moved the obstruction. Unless he fired
now it might be too late. His index finger tightened.
The next moment the air resounded with the terrifying
crash of six explosions; the glass of the coach was
shattered, the bullets ricochetted in every direction,
there was a moan of pain as one of the Terrorists
spun round and dropped to the ground, but—Szamuelly
remained upright, unhurt, and untouched. Even as
Wenzel noted the fact he saw the Communist darting
for cover. With a sob in his throat he realized the
ghastly truth. He had failed!

The next moment there was a fusillade from the train,
as the Terrorists snatched their ever-ready revolvers
from their holsters and opened fire in the direction
from which the shots had come; but they did no good,
for Wenzel and Terhune were already speeding from
the spot in the automobile by which they had arrived.

"Not yet, Arnold, not yet has Szamuelly's time
come." The White Knight sobbed the words as he
drove the car along the pitch-dark road. "But it will!
I swear it will! Szamuelly must die! Szamuelly shall
die!"

# CHAPTER XX

In the fading days of the Red Terror events
succeeded each other with precipitance. The fury of
the people against their bloody leaders grew more
intense, until at length the members of the Soviet began
to tremble in their shoes.

By threats and wholesale murder they endeavoured
to squash the national awakening, but in vain. The
starving people could not buy food, for all the thousands
of white Soviet paper crowns they might flourish: the
peasants would not sell their goods for worthless money.

No longer were the Red troops keeping back the
Rumanians or the Czechs; the Peace Conference was
awakening to a true realization of affairs in Budapest.

Now one by one the rats began to leave the sinking
ship, and among the first batch was Gunzi, the astute
detective, who knew which side his bread was buttered.

Well guarded, the shivering Szamuelly called at his
apartment one day, to find Gunzi in the throes of
packing up, for he who had come to Budapest with nothing
had already collected enough from what pickings had
been left by the time he arrived there to fill three large
trunks, themselves confiscated in the name of the Soviet
Government.

Szamuelly frowned. "Hullo, Comrade Gunzi, where
are you off to?"

Gunzi laughed cynically: "To better parts, my
friend, to better parts."

"What do you mean? Has Budapest meant so little
to you that already you are tired of its attractions?"

The detective grinned. "Ho, ho, Comrade Szamuelly!
Budapest is finished for you and for me and for
all good Communists. Our day is over. You know it
as well as I, friend. In my hunt for your cursed White
Knight I have here and there come across traces of a vast
White plot, fostered and prepared by the English devil
in between times when he has not been hunting you.

"I have ears in my head, I have eyes which can see
well. In a few weeks' time, perhaps not so long as that,
the Commune will be finished, and God keep us all
from the clutches of the White Terror! Mark my
words, Comrade Szamuelly, and take heed of them if
you are a wise man: there will be a White Terror, as
sure as my name is—is supposed to be—Gunzi! Do
you not think that the fathers, mothers, sisters, and
sons of some of the men you have hanged will clamour
for revenge? Eh? The answer is 'yes.' I would, so
would you—if for no other reason than that it would
show our sympathy with the new Government in wishing
to be avenged on the old one, and it is wiser to keep
on the right side of governments in these days.

"I became a Communist with my eyes open, and
they are still open, my friend. That is why I go....
Whither? Well, I do not know. To Austria perhaps,
or Russia, where they have a good way with Whites,
or even Italy; anywhere, say I, rather than stop here."

To Szamuelly the words needed no confirmation;
all that Gunzi had just said he himself had suspected
for some time, but desperately he had continued to hope
for the best.

"But—but you swore to get me the White Knight!"

Gunzi cursed. "I have tried, my friend, but one might
as well try to catch the raindrops as they fall. He is
the Devil himself!—jealous of you, perhaps, Comrade
Szamuelly," and he laughed slyly at his own humour.

"May Hell burn his bones!" The Communist
looked nervously around him with twitching eyes:
"Gunzi, I cannot stand the strain! He is everywhere!
Where my Death Train goes he is there before me with
the message 'Szamuelly shall die!' I see him in the
men who surround me; even among my Terror Boys
he must have his spies. My nerves are fraying, my
courage disappearing."

Gunzi laughed heartlessly: "You are going just the
same way as did Commissary Gonnard. I have never
seen such a jelly-bag in all my life as he at the end
of one day. He fled here, to Budapest, but finally
the White Knight caught him, and hanged him from
the Suspension Bridge."

"But how can he get me—how can he?" Desperately
the white-faced Szamuelly put the question, a very
different Szamuelly from the one who had scornfully
sneered at the first threats of the White Knight. "I am
surrounded by my faithful Terror Boys—they guard
me now night and day—how can he get past them?"

The detective shrugged his shoulders: "Don't ask
me, friend; I do not know. All I say is that he will
in the long run. Besides, didn't you yourself say you
thought he had a spy among them? Take my advice.
Do as I am doing. Pack and fly for it, my friend!" and
with the sound of Gunzi's mocking laughter in his ears
Szamuelly stumbled from the room.

By the time he reached the street his face was chalky,
his lips trembled nervously. Gunzi's words haunted
him; somehow they had rung so prophetically in his
ears. He felt his nerve cracking. His only hope, the
one man he felt could have tracked the White Knight,
was fleeing, not only from the city, but from the country
altogether. Now there was no one to guard him against
the machinations of the White Knight! His Terror Boys
... in their brutal way they were brave enough, possibly
thoroughly loyal, but Szamuelly had no faith in them; all
their bravery was of no use compared with the White
Knight's cunning, all their loyalty was likely to evaporate
at the sight of the White Knight's well-filled purse.

Two Terror Boys walked by his side. "What's
the matter, comrade?" asked one. "You do not look
yourself."

Szamuelly shrugged his shoulders helplessly: "I
am not, my friend. To-day I have received bad
news—news which affects you—I—all of us."

"Bad news which affects us all! What can that
be? The only bad news you could give us would be
that neither wine nor women remained in the world."

Szamuelly laughed shortly: "Yet, my friend, what
I have to say is worse than that. The Commune is
finished, the days of commissaries ended."

The Terror Boys looked at him as if they wondered
what madness had come over their leader.

"You are not well," growled the second guard, who
had not yet spoken.

Szamuelly turned upon him in a temper: "Fools,
fools! So you think I am mad! Blockheads, can't you
see the truth when it is thrust before you? Let me put
it to you in a way you will understand. To-night I leave
Budapest for Russia, or Austria, or Italy—anywhere, so
long as I escape."

The two Terror Boys stopped in their walk and
gazed at Szamuelly with strained expressions. He had
spoken in words which they understood. If he were
fleeing, he, after Bela Kun the leading light of the
Red Terror, then indeed the good days must be finished.
They knew their Szamuelly, and no longer did they
doubt the truth. It was no trick to get rid of them.

Yet a certain suspicion suggested itself to one of
them. "It is not the White Knight?" he queried.

Szamuelly shivered at the mention of the name, yet
he would have hotly denied the imputation had he not
realized the fruitlessness of so doing. Besides, a plan
was formulating in his brain.

"I will be frank with you, comrades," he said,
after a pause. "I am afraid of the White Knight. Yet
listen. If I thought that the Soviet were likely to last
I would dare the Enemy of the Commune to do his
worst, for I should have all of you, my friends, to
guard me against this cursed bourgeois; but ... let us
continue in our walk. I want to make all the necessary
arrangements...."

"To scuttle?"

"Ay, my friends, to scuttle."

There was food for thought in what he had said, and
each of his guards digested in his mind the astounding
news of which he had just been made cognizant. The
one who spoke little thought the harder.

"My friend," he said softly to Szamuelly, "even
though you flee there is still—the White Knight!"

"Well!" Szamuelly turned on him savagely. "Do
you not think I know that as well as you?"

"Yes, yes. But listen, Comrade Szamuelly. Would
you not feel safer if you had a comrade—or, say, two
good comrades—with you when you escape?"

The second Terror Boy laughed shortly. "My God
You are right. Two good comrades, eh, Szamuelly!
Three of us—we three—could put up a fight against
even the White Knight."

Szamuelly's eyes gleamed. So easily had they fallen
into the trap which he had laid for them! "Bravo
my friends! Then that is settled. We will go together
but ... listen! Supposing that the rest of our
comrades hear the news. They too will want to come."

"Why should they?" asked the soft-tongued one.

"Exactly!" agreed Szamuelly. "Then when shall it be?"

"The sooner the better, if what you say in true."

Could the guard have been at the Soviet meeting
taking place at that very moment he would not have
needed to add that last rider. Amidst an atmosphere of
stark tragedy Bela Kun was resigning the Dictatorship
of the Proletariat. In a halting, tearful tone he was
informing his followers of the truth—that the Red Army
had collapsed, the Rumanians had crossed the Tisza,
the Whites had already brought about their coup d'état,
while all over the country red geraniums were being
discarded for white roses, and the Red ensign of bloody
Communism was being supplanted by the national flag.

Forcefully he drove home the truth: the day of the
Commune was ended, and those who valued their necks
more than the power they had wielded for the last six
months could do worse than resign; he himself set the
example.

So fell the Dictatorship of the Proletariat on July 30,
1919, and the government of Hungary was transferred
to the Presidency of Peidl, who appointed ministers
instead of commissaries, and called his government a
"Workmen's Government."

In the meanwhile, with the assistance of his two
comrades, Szamuelly prepared for flight, blithely
abandoning his fellow-murderers to their fate.

In less than an hour he was packed, while outside
the building throbbingly awaited the motor-car which
was to rush him and his two Terror Boys to the station
to catch the first train to Austria.

With a hasty look to see that he had left nothing behind,
for the last time he closed the door of the apartment
which he had confiscated a few months previously.

There was a grin on the faces of the two Terror Boys
who sat in the car. They saw nothing of treachery in
their flight, only a satisfaction that they were one jump
ahead of their fellow-Terrorists, that they were escaping
the threatened upheaval, of which the others, left
behind, would have to bear the brunt. That is why
they smiled—or at any rate why one smiled. The
soft-tongued guard smiled because the White Knight had paid
even more handsomely than usual for certain information,
and several crisp Bank of England notes reposed
comfortably in the lining of his dirty regimental coat.

For the first time for weeks Szamuelly actually felt
light of heart—not because he was giving up his position
of official murderer, not really because he feared the
White uprising, but because he was leaving the White
Knight behind, escaping beyond reach of the White
Knight's vengeance.

He nodded cheerfully to the Terrorist who sat at the
steering-wheel: "Go ahead, comrade! There is just
time in which to catch that train."

The guard depressed the clutch, and with a grinding
whine of annoyance the engine slipped into low.
Szamuelly settled himself comfortably. A few hours now
and he would be able actually to breathe without feeling
a queer catch somewhere inside just near his heart.

He looked round, a last parting glance at the streets
of Budapest, then suddenly he sobbed with a consuming
terror, one which clutched his heart in a violent,
chilling constriction, a fear which fluttered through his
body, freezing his very marrow, draining the blood
from his face and leaving it deathly white.

Barely five yards behind followed another car;
beside the driver sat the White Knight, tense and
expressionless like the grim figure of Fate.

There was no doubt as to his identity. His face pale
with a consuming fury, his scars throbbed redder in
contrast. His steely eyes bored hypnotically into
Szamuelly's, and in them the Communist read a mocking
surety of victory—his death-warrant.

A month ago he would have plucked his revolver
from its holster and opened fire on the audacious
pursuer, but now—he was paralysed with fright, his
nerve entirely gone. He could only gasp, and crouch
further into the body of the car.

"Oh, God!" he moaned. "Oh, God! Oh, God!" Then
with a shriek he raised his voice, "Quicker,
quicker!" and the Terrorist who was driving looked
round with a startled air. "Quicker!" screamed
Szamuelly, and the pace increased till the already shaky
sides of the automobile began to rock unsteadily.

Szamuelly looked back; the relative positions of the
two cars had scarcely changed ... once again he looked
into the eyes of the White Knight....

He leaned forward. "Comrade, for God's sake ... the
aerodrome! ... Behind us the White Knight ... lose
his car, we will fly to Russia...."

The driver looked behind him, and the car swayed
ominously toward an oncoming automobile as his
nerveless fingers suddenly lost their firm grip on the
wheel. Just in time the smooth-tongued one clutched
and held the wheel on a straighter course.

The narrow escape from a terrible collision only
served to make the driver turn still whiter, but at the
same time he was filled with a desperate desire to escape,
and instinctively he turned his attention to the
car—anything to draw away from the dreaded White Knight—and
his foot pressed still harder on the accelerator.

He knew the streets well, did Szamuelly's driver,
for once upon a time, before he had been imprisoned
for robbery with violence, he had been a chauffeur.
Filled with a determination to lose their pursuer,
without the slightest slackening, without a warning
note, he shot off down a side road.

The car rocked over to a dangerous angle, but by
a miracle settled down again, and the next second was
away in the distance, even while Francis Bakocz, who
was driving the pursuing car, little suspecting the
sudden manœuvre, overshot the road and, with the
brakes shrieking and wailing, came to a stop too late,
so that he had to reverse and back. By the time he was
in the side road Szamuelly's car had disappeared.

Francis looked at the White Knight inquiringly, but
Wenzel was puzzled. As the car turned the Terrorist
in his pay had shot his arm up into the air, and his
pointing finger had waved in the direction of the
heavens. It was a signal; that much Wenzel could
guess; but what was its portent he could not gather.

Francis drove wildly on, tearing down the side road
at breakneck speed, unheeding the cursing pedestrians
who shook their fists and growled; but Szamuelly's
Terrorist knew his work, and there was no sign of
the car in front. To stop and inquire would be waste
of time—in the meantime Szamuelly would escape—but
there was apparently nothing else to be done; but,
even as Francis slowed up, Wenzel suddenly turned,
an idea germinating in his mind.

"Francis, quick, is there an aerodrome in this
direction?"

The boy, for he was scarcely more in years, even if
the last few months had aged him in experience, nodded.

Wenzel laughed. "That is where he has gone. For
God's sake, get there quickly!"

In the meantime Szamuelly's car was nearing the
aerodrome. Aeroplanes were waiting—he could see
them, their outstretched wings gleaming whitely in the
sun, their pilots scattered about the field.

The car drew up, steaming, and Szamuelly tumbled out.

"Comrade," he gasped to one of the pilots, "I am
Comrade Szamuelly, a People's Commissary. I ... I
seek a consultation in Russia with Lenin, concerning
the glorious future of a united European Soviet. You
will take me there. I will pay you well—very
well—many thousands of crowns."

"Why shouldn't I, comrade? I am fond of money.
Come to-morrow and I will see what I can do."

"To-morrow? To-morrow is of no use—I must go
now, at once ... this very minute!" His voice rose,
and the pilot looked at him with a questioning glance.

"You are in a hurry, comrade! What bites you?
Lenin is not dying, is he?"

"Delay not, for God's sake, comrade! The White
Knight is after us. He may arrive at any minute
now." It was the smooth-tongued one who spoke.

His words were not without effect. The pilot's face
creased into ugly lines, and he turned upon Szamuelly
with a threatening air:

"Oh, ho, my friend! You do not speak altogether
the truth. The White Knight! I have heard of
him too often for my own peace of mind. You had best
find some one else to take you. I do not relish hanging
from the Suspension Bridge." He turned away.

"I will make it ten, twenty thousand crowns, comrade,
if you will but take me." He was sobbing now.

The pilot laughed harshly. "Of what use are twenty
thousand crowns in Hell, my friend? I prefer to spend
them in Budapest. Find some one else."

With streaming tears Szamuelly begged the pilots,
one after another, to take him to Russia. Once there,
so he told them, they would be safe from the White
Knight's vengeance. But his pleas were of no avail.
They—who did not yet know the Commune was
cracking up, even at that very moment—had no wish
to abandon Hungary yet, and besides, they sneered,
there were Rumanian planes and Czech planes to pass
before Russia was reached, and they had had enough
fighting to last them for a while.

Before five minutes had passed Szamuelly knew his
quest was useless, and also by that time the train to
Austria would be gone; before the next went, God
alone knew what might happen! There was only one
way out of the country.

He turned to his fellow-Terrorists. "Comrades,
drive like Hell for the Austrian frontier. It is the only
thing left now."

They bought petrol, for Szamuelly was afraid to
confiscate, and started off, five minutes before Wenzel
and Francis arrived. While the White Knight remained
under cover Francis made inquiries.

The pilots looked at him with suspicion when he
asked if Szamuelly had been there, but he seemed too
young to be connected with the White Knight, so they
grinned and told him that he was not likely to see the
commissary any more.

"Why?" They laughed when Francis put the
question. "Because he is on his way to Austria. The
White Knight is after him."

"The White Knight! Who the Hell is he?" asked
Francis naïvely. In asking the question he had meant
to be diplomatic, but when ten minutes passed before
they had finished telling him all about the White Knight
he cursed himself for being such an idiot.

At length he got away. Wenzel's face hardened
when he heard the news.

"Well?" he said, and gazed at Francis.

The boy grinned. "I am ready, monsieur."

Wenzel's eyes softened. "Good lad!" he exclaimed
quietly, and Francis suddenly lost his fear of the hideous
White Knight, whom he had met personally for the
first time only a few days previously.

So they started off. Later they reached the road to
the Austrian frontier, and not until then did Francis
open out the throttle.

For the first hour they saw nothing of the car ahead,
but when they made inquiries, at different farmhouses
on the road, they heard that Szamuelly's car had passed
about half an hour previously, so Francis increased the
speed—so much so that by the time they had covered
another thirty miles Szamuelly's car was but ten to
fifteen minutes in advance of them.

While Francis was increasing his speed, the Terrorist
in the car in front was slowing down. For the last two
hours there had been no trace of the White Knight,
and gradually the spirits of the Terror Boys, and even
those of Szamuelly himself, rose higher.

Now there did not seem so much need for haste
they began to linger, to talk more boldly and exchange
reminiscences. Even the smooth-tongued one spoke
a little more, for supposing the White Knight did not
catch up again there was certainly enough money
hidden in his clothes to last him for some time; and
he was equally prepared to desert the White Knight as
he had been his Communist leader.

The time passed by, and steadily the distance to the
Austrian border decreased. Then suddenly Szamuelly
saw, perhaps a mile back, a trail of dust rising into the air.

"By God! Look!" The words burst from hie lips
unconsciously. The two Terrorists glanced back.

The chauffeur groaned: "The White Knight!" But
his companion unconsciously scratched the palm of his
hand—more good English money for his little store!

The Terrorist pressed down his foot, the car shot
forward, and underneath the wheels the road slid past
too quickly for the eye to follow; but Francis had seen
them, and had the better car.

It was a long and thrilling chase; both cars were
speeding to their limit, but yard by yard the White
Knight crept closer, till Szamuelly was damp with a
cold sweat.

A mile, half a mile, quarter of a mile, until at last the
two cars were within pistol-shot of one another, and the
hour of the White Knight's vengeance seemed very near.

Perhaps another fifteen minutes would have seen the
two cars level, and then... Fate for once was against
the White Knight. With an internal choking his car
came to a gradual halt, and Francis swore. "Petrol,"
he said briefly. Fortunately there were spare tins
behind, but in the meantime Szamuelly drew away.

What were the feelings of Szamuelly when he saw
the pursuing car come to a sudden stop will never be
known, but it must have seemed to him then that some
kindly angel had come to his aid, and his fear dropped
from him, so that, all at once, he was in the highest of
spirits. He laughed, sang, and joked, confident that
he had seen the last of the White Knight.

The car drove on; there was an intoxicating spirit of
cheerfulness surrounding them. On ... on to Austria!

Szamuelly gave one final glance back, and saw, in
the far distance, a rising cloud of dust, approaching
with incredible rapidity, but fear no longer reigned in
his heart, for, as the Communist glanced from side to
side, he recognized Lajta Ujfalu in the distance, and
knew that before many minutes passed he would be safe
in Austria. Derisively he waved his hand. "Good-bye,
White Knight!" he called out mockingly. "Good-bye,
Hungary!"

On ... on. One thousand yards to safety, five
hundred, four hundred ... and then—Nemesis!

As they passed a tiny copse there was a rain of
bullets, and they saw a group of hidden, uniformed
men—Hungarian gendarmerie, already self-organized at
the first rumours of the Soviet's downfall. The driver
sighed gently and collapsed. The car jumped forward
for twenty yards—there was a tearing, rending crash—and
the battered skeleton of what just before had been
a live, pulsating automobile overturned.

Szamuelly staggered from out the wreckage. Through
the bloody film which mistily obstructed his vision he
saw men running toward him, shouting and shooting;
suddenly he felt a burning, searing pain which vibrated
through his body. He wanted to fall, to give up, but
an instinct for life urged him forward. He braced up
and staggered on—the frontier was just ahead—three
hundred yards and he would be safe....

The fear of death lent him wings—the excitement of
the chase blinded the eyes of the pursuing gendarmes—and
suddenly Szamuelly knew he was across the frontier....
Safe! ... Safe! The Hungarians would never
dare to shoot now.... He lurched on and on, smiling
grimly, triumphantly.

The gendarmes clustered together on the borderline,
cursing, and watched their prey escape. There were no
Austrian Volkswehr to be seen, but, scarcely recovered
from the heavy yoke of the Soviet, they feared to
advance or to fire, and thus provoke international
complications.

Such was the position when, with a sobbing grind,
Francis brought his car to a stop. The White Knight
jumped out, but there was no need for words. Szamuelly
had all but escaped ... two minutes more and he
would be beyond all hope of revenge.

With a rapid gesture Wenzel seized a rifle from out
the hands of one of the gendarmes, and, putting it to
his shoulder, sighted the staggering Communist. The
figure was small and moving erratically.... Wenzel's
hands shook unsteadily. With an effort of will he
steadied them, and suddenly Szamuelly was clearly
before his eyes, dead between the forked sight.

The rifle flashed—for one vibrant, palpitating second
nothing happened. Then Szamuelly just dropped—never
to move again....

"Too good a death," grumbled the awakened
people of Hungary when they heard the news.

* * * * * *

That night Bela Kun, Weiss, Schwarz, Vago, Pogany,
and Landler, together with all their families, stole
quietly into one of the Budapest stations where a train
was ready for them, steam up, impatiently awaiting the
guard's command. The rats were fleeing—escaping
with the connivance of the new Peidl Government,
but, still more paradoxically, protected from their own
people by an escort supplied by the Italian military
mission stationed in Budapest.

Only one was missing from the party—Szamuelly!
The clock ticked on, the time passed rapidly. In
the end they could wait no longer. The guard
signalled, the train steamed out, en route to Austria;
and so passed out of the pages of history Bela Kun and
his colleagues. Once again justice was denied the
people of Hungary, for with the help of the Allies
the train reached and crossed the Austrian frontier, and
the Communists were safe—safe to live thereafter a life
of ease, when they ought to have hanged, while those
they left behind, betrayed by their leaders to the last,
later suffered the extreme penalty. Even to this day it
is said that somewhere in Russia Bela Kun still lives.

# CHAPTER XXI

Peace at last! With the occupation of Budapest
by the Rumanians a sane Government
was formed, inspired by a proclamation of the
Archduke Joseph, and if the city were still systematically
robbed by the Rumanian occupiers of what little
was left to it, at any rate the thefts, under the name of
reparations, were more legal, and less bitter.

To the gasping, starved citizens of Budapest the
change was well worth it. At least they could walk the
streets openly by day or night without fear of sudden
death, of molestation and imprisonment which meant
worse than death; they could, at any rate, obtain what
food there was, without producing red or blue tickets.

For the first time in months there was peace and happiness
in the hearts of the Hungarian people. Their chins
uplifted, their eyes sparkling, they walked the streets of
the cities, the highways and the byways of the country.
Once again they had come into their own.

In less than a week the Château Juhusz was empty
of all those who had been living there: empty of them
all save one. No longer did the decaying walls echo
with the sound of voices, no longer were its derelict
rooms embellished with flowers, decorated with pieces
of carved wood and crude charcoal drawings.

No more did the Count and Countess Bakocz hold
court in their pitiful apology for a salon, nor did Imre
Kiss, leaning still more heavily on his walking-stick,
pass from room to room, his head bowed with thought,
longing only once more to work upon his beloved
manuscript, to write "Finis" to his tale of the glories
of the Kings of Hungary.

If the drooping château sighed for the absence of
the elder victims of the Red Terror, how much more
did it miss the youthful Francis, with his tales of the
White Knight's daring, with his unconcealed pride in
his first adventures under the Enemy of the Commune's
leadership, the infectious laughter of Elizabeth Kiss,
and best of all the flowering romance of Cecile and
Arnold, their 'chance' meetings in darkened corners,
their timid whispers, their hidden blushes.

Once again was the aged château desolate, the sport of
the wind which mockingly howled round its crumbling
gables, and of the rain which dripped through its
dissolving mortar, percolating into the interior, revivifying
the moss; once again the weeds grew bolder in the
grounds, already beginning to sprout where the amateur
gardeners had stamped them out, and, as they grew, so
for the second time the spirit of the château decayed,
after having been revived for a brief period by the
occupation by the pursued and outlawed nobility.

Dank and dismal, the château drooped, cheerless and
uninviting—a home for nothing except for rats and
mice, which once again invaded its unfortified barriers,
burrowing through its rotting wood, and for the owls
which snuggled back into their usurped corners.

Yet there was one who lived there still, one whose
heart was as cold as the draughts, whose spirits were
as mournful as the dismal moaning of the wind.

His work was finished. The task of the White
Knight was ended, and here, where the woman he now
cherished had lived, he attempted to forget, to wash from
his mind all thoughts of his two Hungarian loves.

He was successful in weaning his thoughts from
Zita, for Time, the master-healer, had washed his
wound of the hurt: she was a lingering memory, a
sweet fragrance of yesterday.

It was his recollection of Elizabeth which tortured
him. She seemed so real, so near, and yet so far away.
She was of the immediate present, as real as Zita was
just a fairy phantom from some delicious dream.

When Geoffrey knew Hungary to be free at last
from the tentacles of the Red octopus he realized that
his work was ended. No more need to rescue unhappy
victims of the Terror, no longer the necessity
to counteract the evil purposes of the Communists, to
hurry refugees across the border, to assist the Whites
in preparing their great coup d'état.

What more could the world want of him now?
Bitterly he answered his own query. Nothing! The
world had no use for a vile, scarred, atrocious specimen
of humanity such as he. It forgets so easily, and once
the world ceased to remember the honour, the glory,
of the scars of war, he would remain only a being of
disgust, a revolting spectacle, an object of pity.

Pity! That would be worse than anything. Pity!
Perhaps it would be: "Poor Geoffrey—but, you
know..." The fatal "but." There would be no
invitations for him—he might frighten the other
guests! Not that he cared a damn; but supposing
he married? ... And, like all mental arguments, his
thoughts finished where they began—with Elizabeth.

Because of his attempted suicide—for he did not
blink his eyes to the fact that it was attempted suicide
deliberately to invite the Reds to murder him—he
must bear a cross during the rest of his life. That was
his punishment—his face his cross. Or was it rather
his hopeless love for Elizabeth?

Those were days of bitterness! His brain no longer
busy with schemes and plans for the succour of others,
his time no longer fully taken up, his thoughts turned to
himself and his future, and in desperation he fled to the
empty château to work out his own salvation, to forget!

To forget! It was not long before he realized that
of all the places in which to do this he had chosen the
worst. What chance was there of forgetting when every
corner reminded him of Elizabeth—perhaps she had sat
there—or there—or there? She—she had slept in that
room, he remembered—and that room became his shrine.

In the woods were the flowers she had loved so
much—their sweet, dewy smell was reminiscent of her, as
was the purity of the white flowers, for they were her
soul, the richness of the red flowers, for they were her
cheeks, the softness of the pansies, for they were her eyes.

The insects chirruped of her, the whispering of the
wind through the forest trees sang of her, the tiny
brooklet running near by babbled of her. Worst of all
the moon, the broad, round face of the moon, as it
majestically rose into the clear heavens, winked
derisively at him, or frowned at him, shedding its silver
beams through the interlaced boughs of the trees.

So the days passed, the heart of Geoffrey growing
more sullen and more cold, until the spirit of the
White Knight wilted beneath the triple load of misery,
self-torture, and hopeless love.

The time arrived when he could not bear to look
upon his own reflection, so he ceased to shave and
grew a long, silky beard and a moustache.

He fed on what stores the refugees had left behind,
and slept on the rough bed which Arnold had used
when he was at the château, living the life of a hermit,
trying to forget ... trying to forget ... and failing!

* * * * * *

The moon was rising, just skirting the trees, when
one night Geoffrey became conscious of voices.

He was going to swear, but even as the words
trembled on his lips he started, for he recognized the
voices. Arnold and Elizabeth! What were they doing
near the old château? He was in one of the front rooms,
but like a wraith, and with as little noise, despite his
great size, he slipped out into the surrounding forest,
suspecting that they might enter the château.

The voices came nearer; they were chattering idly
of current events in Budapest, but half-way across the
clearing Elizabeth raised her hand and restrained Arnold.

"Please, monsieur," she said, and the sound of her
voice stole through the quiet air to where Geoffrey was
hidden. "Please, monsieur, I would like to stop here."

Arnold obediently halted. Then suddenly Elizabeth
saw the old fountain, and, crossing to it, stood there,
watching it in the light of the moon.

"Poor Mercury," she said wistfully; "he seems
so solitary—alone in this big forest with no one near.
He must have been a merry little chap in the old days,
before he became overgrown with moss. I am going
to sit down. Won't you rest beside me, Monsieur
Arnold, so that I may talk to you?"

She seated herself on the edge of the large empty
basin, and gazed around. From his place of concealment
Geoffrey watched, and the beauty of the scene
tortured him so that he closed his eyes. The silver rays
of the moon bathed the clearing and the château in a
pure white light which softened the decay, till one
could almost picture it as it must have appeared in
those far-off days when it had been the centre of life
and love, of activity and of idleness: the playground of
courtiers and ladies-in-waiting, with their colours and
their swords, with their lace petticoats and their fans.

Never had Elizabeth looked so beautiful; it seemed
to Geoffrey that never before had a background so
admirably become her. If it were he who sat beside her,
if it were only he! He caught his breath in a little gasp.

"How you must have wondered at me, Monsieur
Arnold!" Elizabeth was saying to him as he sat beside
her. "Did you think me mad, asking you to escort
me here one night?"

"Indeed no," Arnold replied in his deep voice.
"On the contrary, mademoiselle, I myself was more
than pleased to come. This château has wonderful
memories for me—memories of one night, just like
this, not so long ago, when ... when Cecile..." He
stopped awkwardly.

"Why, of course. I had forgotten," and it seemed
to Geoffrey as if there was a sigh in her voice. "You
are very happy, monsieur?"

"Happy!" There was a wealth of gladness in that
one word which spoke for itself. "Mademoiselle, a short
while ago, in the middle of the Terror, I would have said
that this world was a Hell for some other and better world.
Now it seems to me that it must be Heaven itself."

"Heaven!" she repeated in a whisper. "Heaven!
Well, it might be, if..." She turned to Arnold
suddenly. "What of the White Knight? Where is he?"

"Heaven only knows, mademoiselle," Arnold groaned.
"Some time after the Rumanians took control he
disappeared without a word. Since then I have hunted
high and low for him without success."

"Are you not—afraid?" There was a catch in her voice.

"Afraid!" repeated Arnold, puzzled about her
meaning. Then he realized what she meant. "No,
mademoiselle, not of that. Only four people know
who the White Knight was—Apor, Francis, you, and
I. Besides, the Reds are being imprisoned in their
hundreds. Many will hang. The rest are too busy
hiding to worry about revenge."

"Then why has he fled from us all?" she demanded.

"Because—because of his scars," he answered slowly.
"Poor Geoffrey. You see, he was so handsome before—before
they came. And now! Somehow I cannot blame
him; I feel everything he suffers. They make him
horrible, mademoiselle, horrible—almost too hideous for
a man to look at unmoved, and still less a—a woman!"

There was an unconscious undercurrent in his voice
as he spoke the last few words, and she turned to him.

"Why do you say that? Why should he be more
hideous to a woman?"

Arnold was embarrassed. "I—I do not know, but
you see, mademoiselle, it always seems to men that
women should be brought into contact only with the—the
pretty things of this world. We try to keep the
ugly things to ourselves."

"I know—and yet some women say men are selfish." She
paused, but only for a few seconds. "Monsieur,
supposing I brought you here for two reasons? One
for the sake of—of memories, and the other to talk to
you, alone and privately!

"Listen! That awful, terrible day when I betrayed
the White Knight he called me 'Delilah.' Why, why
did he say that to me? Has he ever explained to you?"

"No, mademoiselle," Arnold answered sadly. "He
would not let me speak to him on the subject of his
capture."

"Why not?" she demanded, but he was silent.
"Yet I believe I can answer myself. Was it because he
thought I had deliberately betrayed him?"

"I—I do not know."

"But you suspect...? Again you are silent,
monsieur, and your silence is your answer. Holy
Mary! Why cannot he realize the truth? I—I to
betray the White Knight! Sooner would I have cut off
my own tongue than willingly betray the man who saved
my father from death, and me from far worse. Oh,
Mother in Heaven, why can he not realize the truth?"

Arnold did not speak. He felt as if he were being
permitted to look upon a woman's soul—that it would
have been sacrilege for him to speak.

There was a sob in her voice, and she struggled with
her emotion, but presently conquering it she continued:
"Is that the only reason the White Knight has
disappeared, Monsieur Arnold? Is the mere fact of a
woman betraying him sufficient to drive him away for
ever, or is there another reason? Tell me. I command
you, monsieur, if you value a woman's happiness,
answer me the truth."

"The truth ... mademoiselle, he worships the ground
you walk on, but ... but ... because of his scars..."

"And what of my betrayal of him?"

"He would ... he has, I am sure ... forgiven
you that."

"Monsieur, for those words I could almost love you.
And I believe you. God be praised! But now, listen
carefully, monsieur, I have a message for you to give
the White Knight if ever you shall meet him. Tell him
that his love for me is no deeper than my love for him,
that—that—oh! what can I say save that I love him so?" And
suddenly she buried her face in her hands, her body
shaking with the sobs she could no longer repress.

At that moment there came, from the forest, a
crackling of disturbed undergrowth, and a tall,
white-faced man staggered toward them, to sink on the turf
at her feet, clasping her hands, kissing them, again and
again, till his burning lips were bruised.

With scarcely a sound Arnold disappeared, and they
were left alone in the clearing, alone with the moon.

"My love, my love," he muttered again and again.
"And yet ... it is impossible. I am dreaming, just
dreaming. Soon I shall wake up, to find myself alone,
with the rats and the mice—alone!"

"Hush, dear one!" she placed her hands to his
lips. "Hush!"

For a while neither spoke, till in the end Geoffrey
broke the silence, and his voice was changed.

"It must be impossible. How can you care for me?
My scars..."

"Do you think a woman loves a man only for his
face?" she asked.

"Not ordinarily, perhaps. But my face is ghastly—evil.
For the moment you have forgotten it. Your love
is blinding you. When your eyes are opened you will
see—you must see—my features in their true colours,
and you will shudder.... Oh, God! Believe me,
Elizabeth, I know it to be the truth."

"It is not the truth!" she murmured passionately.
"Have I not thought till my brain has ached with
weariness? Have you forgotten that I am a daughter
of Hungary, descended from a long line of fierce
warriors? Each scar on your face is a scar of honour,
every wound only one more reason why I should
cherish you even more. I am not a dressed-up doll of
the West, who must be surrounded by pretty things
lest she droop. Unless you wish to wreck two people's
happiness you must—must believe me, dear!"

"If only I might!" he murmured.

"Then test me," she challenged defiantly; "test me!"

"Ay, I will, dear," he agreed. "I will light a
match, hold it to my face, and then look into your
eyes. I shall assuredly read the truth there."

So his hand fumbled for a box of matches in his
pocket, but when he found it his fingers trembled.
What would the light reveal? Slowly he took out a
match, but even then he hesitated. If they could only
live for ever thus—in the dim light of the moon!

"Geoffrey!" she commanded gently.

"I am a coward. I am afraid." Then suddenly he
struck it, and held the spluttering flame close to his
face, so that its light might also reflect upon hers, and
thus he could read her eyes.

So they sat, face to face, till the flame died away. In
her eyes he had seen, not shuddering, unwilling horror,
but tender love and, above all, overwhelming surprise.

Surprise!

"What is it?" he asked roughly.

"Geoffrey! Geoffrey!" She could hardly speak
in her excitement, she was almost incoherent. "Oh,
God! Oh, Mother in Heaven!"

So after all she had failed! His life was shattered.
He rose to his feet, and would have moved away, but she
clung to him desperately, forcing his arms around her.

"Geoffrey, you don't understand! Almost you are
handsome. Your scars—your scars—I cannot see them,
only one, just across your eye. That could not hurt me."

"You cannot see my ... my scars! Oh, God!
You are deceiving yourself, Elizabeth ... your love
is blinding you."

"No, no, I swear it! Don't you understand,
Geoffrey? Your beard, your moustache——"

His hand wandered to his chin, his fingers felt the
silky hairs, curling, concealing. Then suddenly he
realized that he too was receiving his reward.

A wave of happiness flooded his body. Life once
again opened out before him.

He drew her closer ... they were alone together
... just Elizabeth and he ... and the moon!
